Title: Strength Training  Muscle Building
URL: https://thefitness.wiki/routines/strength-training-muscle-building/

Strength Training / Muscle Building
Table of Contents
Toggle
If you are a complete beginner to resistance training…
Barbell / Compound Lift Focused Routines
Dumbbell Focused Routines
Bodyweight / Home / Minimal Equipment Routines
Hotel / Apartment / Planet Fitness-like Gyms
This page lists routines that are most commonly recommended by r/Fitness users for building strength and muscle. However, it is definitely not a complete list of
all
effective routines, and there are many more out there that will serve you just as well. For some other options to consider, you can also have a look at the
Program Review Archive
.
All of the programs on this page are effective at getting you both bigger and stronger, provided you
eat to support it
. A bigger muscle is a stronger muscle and vice versa. While the overlap is certainly not 100%, don’t fall into the trap of thinking getting bigger and getting stronger are mutually exclusive goals that require wildly different training methods – especially if it is based on the outdated concept of
special rep ranges
.
As you make your choice, don’t forget the importance of having at least
some
cardio in your overall fitness plan, even if it’s not your primary focus. Read more about the benefits here:
Why You Should Do Cardio
We also recommend looking over the following entry in our FAQ to help clear up a common misconception:
Why is r/Fitness so focused on “powerlifting” routines?
If you are a complete beginner to resistance training…
…we strongly recommend getting started with one of the following routines, depending on your equipment access:
r/Fitness Basic Beginner Routine
r/Bodyweightfitness Recommended Routine
Dumbbell Stopgap
or
Dumbbell Stopgap PPL
Barbell / Compound Lift Focused Routines
r/Fitness Basic Beginner Routine
A simple, modified version of the old “Phrak’s GSLP” routine to be used as a short term introductory program for learning the fundamental barbell lifts, with guidelines for accessory work, cardio, and conditioning. If you’re new to barbell lifts, this is a good place to start.
LiftOff – Couch to Barbell
A (paid) program by “Ask A Swole Woman” columnist Casey Johnston aimed at giving novices a successful start at strength training, no matter their current level of physical fitness, building up to training in the traditional barbell lifts.
Jim Wendler’s 5/3/1
A popular, proven system for training that is effective for trainees of all levels by veteran coach Jim Wendler, which has many common variants available for free online. If you’re having trouble understanding any of the below, have a look at our
5/3/1 Primer
for a breakdown of the system. Read reviews in the
Program Review Archive
.
5/3/1 For Beginners
The 5/3/1 program with modifications to target it more towards novice lifters. 3 days of lifting, cardio/conditioning on off days.
5/3/1 – Boring But Big
One of the most popular 5/3/1 variants. Simple to follow and good for both strength and size. 4 days of lifting.
5/3/1 – Building the Monolith
A variant of the 5/3/1 program with a focus on building size. 3 days of lifting, 3 days of cardio/conditioning.
The GZCL Method
Powerlifter and
r/Fitness
regular Cody LeFever’s training system. A very flexible program that can be adapted for many different goals. See
r/gzcl
for more. Read reviews in the
Program Review Archive
.
GZCLP
A linear progression template derived from the GZCL Method. A 3 or 4 day routine.
Greg Nuckols’ Programs
– 28 free training programs from longtime friend of the Reddit strength training communities, Greg Nuckols of
Stronger By Science
. Read reviews in the
Program Review Archive
.
Stronger By Science Program Bundle
A (paid) strength and muscle building program by Greg Nuckols. Formerly known as “Average to Savage”.
Strong Curves
A program aimed at introducing women to weight lifting. The program can be tailored to the user and offers at-home alternatives for those without access to a gym. Some spreadsheets can be found
in this post on r/xxfitness
. More info can be found at
/r/StrongCurves
.
nSuns LP
A “linear progression” focused program based very loosely on elements of 5/3/1 Spinal Tap, created by
r/Fitness
regular nSuns. Comes in 4 day, 5 day, and 6 day variations.
Metallicdpas PPL
(Archive)
Linear progression based push/pull/legs program. A 6 day routine. Can also be run as a 3 day routine.
Westside For Skinny Bastards
A strength and muscle building program by Joe DeFranco. A 4 day program.
PHAT (Power Hypertrophy Adaptive Training)
Size and strength program by Dr. Layne Norton. A 5 day program.
Arnold Schwarzenegger’s Splits
Body part splits from Arnold Schwarzenegger. Two variations, both are 6 day programs. While the article categorizes these as “Advanced”, anyone who knows how to do the lifts involved is perfectly capable of doing this routine if weight is appropriately selected.
Jon Anderson’s Deep Water Method
A free e-book on pro strongman and IFBB pro bodybuilder Jon Anderson’s training methods. Includes programs for Beginner, Intermediate, and Advanced trainees. Read reviews in the
Program Review Archive
.
Dumbbell Focused Routines
Dumbbell Stopgap
Dumbbell Stopgap PPL
Frankoman’s Dumbbell only split
“Fierce 5” Dumbbell Variant
Bodyweight / Home / Minimal Equipment Routines
BWF Recommended Routine
The recommended routine from
r/BodyWeightFitness
. Provides many variations of the classic bodyweight movements for different levels of strength and skill.
BWF ‘Move’ Routine
Alternative routine from
r/BodyWeightFitness
meant to take you through your first two years of training.
BWF Minimalist Routine
A bare-bones bodyweight circuit from
r/BodyWeightFitness
.
BWF Skills Routine
Skills and mobility work
StartBodyweight Basic Routine
Intermediate / Advanced Bodyweight routines
From the
r/BodyWeightFitness
wiki
EliteFTS – 100+ Stay-at-Home Workouts and Exercises
Greg Nuckols – How to Make Gains Without A Gym
Juggernaut Training Systems – Limited Equipment Training Guide
(pdf)
Juggernaut Training Systems – At Home Training Ideas
(video)
John Meadows – Band ‘Push’ Workout
(video)
John Meadows – Band
‘Pull’
Workout
(video)
John Meadows – Band ‘Legs’ Workout
(video)
Hotel / Apartment / Planet Fitness-like Gyms
The r/Fitness Planet Fitness / Hotel / Apartment Gym Workout Routine Megathread
This megathread has r/Fitness users sharing the routines they use at gyms with less than a full range of equipment.