Title: Decline Sit Ups
URL: https://www.puregym.com/exercises/abs/decline-sit-ups/

Decline Sit Ups
WHAT ARE DECLINE SIT UPS?
Jump to tutorial
Decline sit ups
are a challenging
sit up variation
that has an increased range of motion, forcing the core to work harder. Decline sit ups train the core through spinal flexion to primarily work the rectus abdominis, obliques, and hip flexors.
The decline sit up typically is performed on a decline between 30-45 degrees, and the greater the decline the more difficult this exercise is. If you find the 30 to 45 degrees decline too challenging, adjust the bench to allow for a more upright positioning before slowly progressing the movement to the greater decline.
Check out some of our other ab exercises:
Toe touches
,
Side planks
,
Plank knee to elbow
,
Plank to press ups
,
Swiss ball pikes
Most Commonly Asked Questions About Decline Sit Ups
Are Decline Sit-Ups Better?
Decline sit ups provide more range of motion than the conventional sit up due to the downward angle of the body. It also forces the body to work against gravity on a decline. These make the movement more challenging than a conventional sit up, providing a greater ability for core development.
Are Decline Sit-ups Safe?
Decline sit ups are safe as long as they are performed with correct form. Make sure you have mastered the conventional sit up and can correctly engage the encore before moving to this variation.
How Do You Decline A Sit-Up?
To set up for a decline sit up, set up a decline bench to 30 to 45 degrees. The greater the angle, the harder this exercise will be.
Tips for Decline Sit Ups
If you’re new to decline sit ups, we recommend starting with conventional sit ups to build your core strength and become familiar with the movement. Ensure you are engaging the core to keep a neutral spine and prevent the lower back from overextending as this protects against injury.
Once you have mastered decline sit ups, you can make this exercise more challenging by holding a weight in front of your chest or above the head.
How To Do Decline Sit Ups
Set up a decline bench to 30 to 45 degrees, then sit on the bench with your knees bent and both feet hooked under the padded bar. Lay flat so that your back is resting against the bench.
Brace your core to pull your belly button towards the spine, and then flex the spine to bring your torso off the bench until you are sitting upright.
Take a short pause before reversing the movement, slowly lowering yourself back down towards the bench.
Back to top
Back to all ab exercises
Back to all exercises
If you’re not sure if any of the above exercises are suitable for you, please consult your doctor before you start it. Need guidance on how to perform the exercise? Ask a personal trainer at your gym.