Title: Plank Knee To Elbows
URL: https://www.puregym.com/exercises/abs/plank-knee-to-elbow/

Plank Knee To Elbows
What Are Plank Knee To Elbows?
Jump to tutorial
The
plank knee to elbow
combines elements of the
plank
and the
ab crunch
in an exercise that works almost every muscle in the body, with the rectus abdominis, obliques, and transverse abdominis in particular having to work extra hard to keep the spine stable.
The plank knee to elbow exercise starts off in a plank position and requires the performer to bring their knee towards the elbow on that same side.  The obliques, hips, shoulders, and quads all work to stabilise the body, while the abdominal muscles power the crunch.
If you've mastered the plank or the crunch and are looking for an additional challenge, the plank knee to elbow is a good progression to try.
Check out some of our other ab exercises:
Planks
,
Pallof presses
,
Deadbugs
,
Decline sit ups
,
Ab wheel rollouts
Most Commonly Asked Questions About Plank Knee To Elbows
Are Knees To Elbows Plank Effective For Abs?
The knee to elbow plank is an effective movement in training the core muscles. This movement is a useful progression to the normal plank which can become easy and time consuming as the core gets stronger.
What Muscle Does Knee To Elbow Work?
The rectus abdominis is the muscle responsible for bringing the knee to the elbow, however the plank knee to elbow also works the transverse abdominis and obliques, as well as muscles in the shoulders, arms, hips, and legs.
What Is Plank Knee To Elbow Called?
The plank knee to elbow is sometimes called the spiderman plank.
Tips for Plank Knee To Elbows
A common mistake made in knee to elbow planks is using momentum to jerk the knee forward, however this breaks form and shifts tension away from the core. It’s important to perform this exercise with slow, controlled movement and maintaining good form to keep the tension in your core. Think about pulling your belly button towards your sternum and keeping your hips at the same height throughout the exercise.
If good form cannot be maintained, try doing planks and crunches separately to build up more strength.
How To Do Plank Knee To Elbows
Adopt a press up position with hands and elbows stacked below your shoulders, body in a line from head to heel.
Brace your core and push through your hands, then slowly bring your right knee as close to your right elbow without breaking form.
Return back to the plank and repeat on the other side.
Back to top
Back to all ab exercises
Back to all exercises
If you’re not sure if any of the above exercises are suitable for you, please consult your doctor before you start it. Need guidance on how to perform the exercise? Ask a personal trainer at your gym.