Title: Plank To Press Ups
URL: https://www.puregym.com/exercises/abs/plank-to-press-ups/

Plank To Press Ups
What Are Plank To Press Ups?
Jump to tutorial
The
plank to press
up
is a challenging full body exercise that combines two moves: the
forearm plank
and the
push up
. In addition to strengthening every muscle in the core, the plank to press up works the pectorals, triceps, and anterior deltoids. Muscles in the hips and legs are also engaged to help stabilise the body.
Plank to press ups are an advanced bodyweight exercise and likely more suitable for intermediate to advanced gym goers. It works well in circuit style training or as a finisher to an upper body workout.
Plank to press ups help to build strength, grow muscle, and helps to improve stability, balance, and coordination.
Check out some of our other ab exercises:
Planks
,
Sit ups
,
Crunches
,
V sit ups
,
Bicycle crunches
Most Commonly Asked Questions About Plank To Press Ups
How To Do Planks And Push Ups After A Hernia?
If you’re recovering from a hernia, it’s important to get sign off from your doctor before trying planks to push ups. Once you’ve been cleared to start strengthening your core, it’s best to start with planks, or kneeling plank to kneeling press up, to build strength and stability in the core. Once you feel ready, you can slowly progress to plank to press ups.
Is Plank To Push Up Effective?
Plank to push ups are an effective and challenging full body exercise that offers all the benefits of both a plank and a press up, including strengthening the core, chest, triceps, shoulders, and improving stability.
Is A Push Up Plank Better Than A Normal Plank?
Plank to push ups are more challenging than normal planks and will be more effective at building full body strength. However, they’re an advanced exercise that may not be accessible for everyone. They are also likely to engage the core less than full planks due to involvement from the upper body. Planks are a great way to build core strength and learn how to correctly engage the shoulders and core, which can help you to get a push up.
Tips for Plank To Press Ups
Before attempting plank to press ups, you should master both the plank and the press up individually. You can also work on kneeling planks to kneeling press ups to build strength and master the movement.
While the movement is advanced, it’s important to acknowledge that the demand on the core may be lesser than with other ab exercises due to the involvement from other muscle groups during the press up portion of the movement. If you’re looking to make the movement more core focused, try holding the plank for 30 seconds before taking a push up!
How To Do Plank To Press Ups
Start in a press up position with hands and elbows stacked under your shoulders, with your body in a straight line from shoulders to heels.
Transition into a forearm plank by lowering down to rest on your forearms with elbows under the shoulders. Squeeze the abs to maintain a neutral spine.
Hold the plank for around 5 seconds, then transition back into press up position while keeping your knees and hips off the floor.
Bend at the elbows to lower your chest towards the floor, making sure your arms stay close to your sides.
Push back into the press up position.
Repeat for desired reps.
Back to top
Back to all ab exercises
Back to all exercises
If you’re not sure if any of the above exercises are suitable for you, please consult your doctor before you start it. Need guidance on how to perform the exercise? Ask a personal trainer at your gym.