Title: Swiss Ball Pikes
URL: https://www.puregym.com/exercises/abs/swiss-ball-pikes/

Swiss Ball Pikes
What Are Swiss Ball Pikes?
Jump to tutorial
The
Swiss ball pike
is a challenging full body exercise that involves using the Swiss ball to pull the hips into a pike position, a straight legged position with the hips hinged.
This is an excellent exercise for the core thanks to the instability provided by the Swiss ball, with the rectus abdominis, transverse abdominis, and obliques working hard to keep the body balanced. It also works the shoulders, chest, quads, glutes, and adductors, making it an effective way to improve full body strength, stability, and coordination.
Check out some of our other ab exercises:
Plank knee to elbow
,
Plank to press ups
,
Swiss ball circles
,
Pallof presses
,
Deadbugs
Most Commonly Asked Questions About Swiss Ball Pikes
What Are The Benefits Of The Swiss Ball Pike?
The Swiss ball pike strengthens muscles throughout the entire body and helps to improve balance, stability, and coordination. It’s a really effective core exercise and can help to improve posture, reduce back pain, and improve other lifts like the squat.
What Is The Pike Position In Exercise?
The pike position is commonly used in gymnastics and diving. The pike movement requires the performer to bend at the hip while maintaining straight arms and legs. The pike should be held in position to create a V shape with the body.
What Are The Benefits Of Using A Swiss Ball With Exercises?
The Swiss ball provides an unstable surface for performers and exercises, placing a greater demand on balance and stability to challenge the muscles more than when performed on a stable surface. The Swiss ball can also aid flexibility and increase range of motion during certain exercises.
Tips for Swiss Ball Pikes
Swiss ball pikes require a good amount of shoulder, hip, and hamstring mobility. If you are struggling to master the movement while keeping the ball under control, try other core exercises like the plank while you work on your flexibility.
It’s important to maintain a neutral spine throughout the exercise, and not allow the back to arch. Think about squeezing your belly button to your spine to flatten the back and maintain this throughout the movement.
How To Do Swiss Ball Pikes
To get into the starting position, lay your stomach on the ball and slowly walk your hands forwards until your torso is hovering above the ground and your shins are pressed against the ball.
Stack your hands and elbows under your so that your upper body is in a press up position.
Push your hands into the ground and squeeze your abs, then begin to lift your hips up to the ceiling and pull your feet towards your chest, coming onto your toes as the ball rolls towards you.
Take a short pause before slowly pushing your hips down to revert to the starting position.
Back to top
Back to all ab exercises
Back to all exercises
If you’re not sure if any of the above exercises are suitable for you, please consult your doctor before you start it. Need guidance on how to perform the exercise? Ask a personal trainer at your gym.