Title: V Sit Ups
URL: https://www.puregym.com/exercises/abs/v-sit-ups/

V Sit Ups
What Are V sit ups?
Jump to tutorial
The
v sit up
is a challenging bodyweight exercise that involves simultaneously lifting the upper and lower body to bring the arms and legs close together, creating a V shape.
V sit ups primarily strengthen the rectus abdominis, internal and oblique muscles, and the hip flexors, with the erector spinae also trained. They also help to build balance and coordination and improve posture.
V sit ups require a good level of core strength. If you struggle to maintain good form, start with
conventional sit ups
and toe touches to build core strength.
Check out some of our other ab exercises:
Planks
,
Pallof presses
,
Deadbugs
,
Decline sit ups
,
Ab wheel rollouts
Most Commonly Asked Questions About V sit ups
What Are V Sit Ups?
V sit ups challenge the core muscles by requiring the performer to lie on the floor and before lifting the legs and the torso off the ground to make a V shape with their body.
V sit ups are a challenging movement that are a suitable progression from normal sit ups. They challenge the rectus abdominis and the obliques!
Are V Sit Ups Better Than Sit Ups?
V sit ups are a more advanced ab exercise than sit ups, and provide a greater challenge to the hip flexors and lower abs. While they can be better than sit ups for strengthening the core, having a strong core is required to perform these correctly. For beginners, sit ups can be a better option as it allows to build up that base strength.
What Are V Sit Ups Good For?
V sit ups are good for building strength and stability in the core and hip flexors. A strong and stable core helps to protect the back from injury, improve performance in lifts such as deadlifts and squats, and improve posture.
Tips for V sit ups
Performing the V sit up correctly is important to protect the lower back and work the intended muscles.
Keeping your shoulders pulled back, pelvis tucked under, and belly button pulled into the spine, will avoid placing unnecessary strain on the lower back and keep the tension on the core. It is also important to avoid using momentum throughout the exercise as this shifts focus onto other muscles.
If you find yourself struggling to maintain the correct form, regress to a sit up or leg raises to build your strength before reattempting to perform V sit ups.
How To Do V Sit Ups
Lie flat on your back on the floor, with your arms extended above your head and the legs extended.
Begin the reps by squeezing your abs as you simultaneously lift your legs and arms off the floor, reaching your hands towards your feet.
Revert the movement, by slowly lowering to the starting position.
Back to top
Back to all ab exercises
Back to all exercises
If you’re not sure if any of the above exercises are suitable for you, please consult your doctor before you start it. Need guidance on how to perform the exercise? Ask a personal trainer at your gym.