Title: Supermans
URL: https://www.puregym.com/exercises/abs/supermans/

Supermans
What Is A Superman?
Jump to tutorial
The
superman
is an exercise that works the full posterior chain, primarily targeting the core, lower back, glutes, and hamstrings, with the upper back and shoulders also worked. Strengthening these muscles can improve posture, reduce lower back pain, and help sports performance.
Proper core training has to include exercises that work the back of the body. Supermans are one of the best exercises for building strength and stability in the muscles that support your lower back and hips. This can translate to a stronger foundation for everyday activities as well as training and lifting in the gym.
Supermans are a floor exercise and don't need any equipment, making them suitable for gym and home workouts. Take the time to learn proper technique to ensure you recruit the muscles effectively and prevent putting too much pressure on the spine.
Check out some other abs exercises:
Hanging leg raises
,
hanging knee raises,
Russian twists
Most Commonly Asked Questions About Supermans
What Are The Benefits Of Supermans?
Supermans target the posterior chain muscles in the back of the body, including the lower back, glutes, and lumbar spine area, contributing to overall core strength. Adding supermans to your ab and core training will help stabilise the core, reduce back pain, and build postural strength.
Which Muscles Do Supermans Work?
Supermans are a core exercise that work the back of the body, including the glutes, hamstrings, lower back muscles, rear of the shoulders, and back muscles including spiral erectors and rhomboids. They also stretch the abs and hip flexors at the front of the body.
What Are Some Variations Of The Superman Exercise?
Supermans are different to many ab and core exercises because they work the back of the core rather than the front of the body. Variations of this exercise include raising just the upper body off the floor, or raising just the legs off the floor, both which are suitable if you find supermans too difficult. To make this more challenging, you can hold weights in your hands or use the hyperextension bench to create a larger range of motion.
Are Supermans Good For Lower Back?
Supermans are great for the lower back and can help to reduce pain and risk of injury. This exercise strengthens the lower back muscles as well as the glutes and hamstring muscles, which play a key role in stabilising the lower back and protecting against lumbar back pain. Supermans also stretch the front of the hip flexors, which can relieve pressure in the lower back.
Tips for Supermans
Reduce swinging by bracing the lats. To do this, adopt a dead hang position by allowing your shoulders to fully relax and then pull your shoulders slightly down while keeping your arms straight.
Brace your core by tensing your abs and pulling them down towards your pelvis.
Pause in the top position and lower your legs with control to build strength and challenge the muscles effectively.
How To Do Supermans
Lie face down on a mat with your legs straight and arms extended overhead.
Keep your head and neck relaxed by looking down rather than crunching your neck or dropping your head.
Engage the core by pulling your belly button in towards the spine and squeezing your glutes to prepare for the movement.
Lift your arms and legs off the floor at the same time while keeping your stomach and hips flat on the floor. Thinking about driving your hips into the mat.
Pause at your max position before slowly returning to the floor.
If the full version of Superman feels too much for your shoulders, perform the exercise with arms bent and hands at the side of your head.
Back to top
Back to all ab exercises
Back to all exercises
If you’re not sure if any of the above exercises are suitable for you, please consult your doctor before you start it. Need guidance on how to perform the exercise? Ask a personal trainer at your gym.