Title: Concentration Curls
URL: https://www.puregym.com/exercises/arms-and-shoulders/bicep-curl/concentration-curls/

Concentration Curls
What Is A Concentration Curl
Jump straight to the tutorial
Concentration curls
are a unilateral curl variation which challenge the biceps in a seated position with the working elbow supported by the thigh. This keeps the bicep stable and prevents other areas of the body supporting the lift, which places greater tension on the bicep.
The concentration curl is great for those looking to improve their curl form and learn how to optimally engage the bicep. As a unilateral exercise, they can address muscular imbalances between the two biceps and improve mind muscle connection.
Check out some other bicep curl variations:
preacher curls
,
spider curls
,
zottman curls
,
incline bicep curls
,
pronated bicep curls
Commonly Asked Questions On Concentration Curls
Are Concentration Curls Good?
Concentration curls are a good exercise that train the biceps unilaterally. The positioning of the working arm against the inner thigh removes momentum from the exercise and forces the bicep to do all the work, so it can be more efficient than variations without support.
How Many Concentration Curls Should I Do?
A good rule of thumb is to always train within 2-3 reps of muscular failure to ensure you’re challenging the muscles sufficiently. As an isolation exercise, bicep curls are typically used to improve aesthetics over strength. If your goal is hypertrophy, 3-4 sets of 8-12 reps is a good aim.
What Muscles Do Concentration Curls Work?
Concentration curls work the biceps, targeting both the long and short head, the forearms, and the grip.
Why Are Concentration Curls So Hard?
Concentration curls may feel harder than other bicep exercises because momentum is eliminated, which means the bicep must do all the lifting without support from other muscles.
Concentration Curls Tips
The concentration curl eliminates momentum and as such ensures the bicep is targeted effectively. It’s important to ensure the elbow does not lift from its position resting against the thigh as this will shift the tension from the bicep. As you lift, push the elbow into the thigh to keep it secure.
While the main challenge of the concentration curl may feel like lifting the dumbbell, the lowering of the dumbbell can further aid muscle gain if performed slowly and with control. Perform both parts of the move with control to see greater benefits.
How To Do A Concentration Curl
Sit down on a bench so that your knees are at 90 degrees and your feet are planted on the floor.
Holding a dumbbell in the working hand, place the elbow onto your inner thigh. Rest your other hand on the opposing leg to balance yourself.
Push your elbow into your thigh as you bend it, curling the dumbbell towards your shoulder.
Once you’ve curled all the way up, take a short pause before slowly lowering the dumbbell back to the starting position.
Complete reps on one side before commencing on the other side.
Back To Top
Back to all bicep exercises
Back to all exercises
If you’re not sure if any of the above exercises are suitable for you, please consult your doctor before you start it. Need guidance on how to perform the exercise? Ask a personal trainer at your gym.