Title: How To Do Incline Bicep Curls
URL: https://www.puregym.com/exercises/arms-and-shoulders/bicep-curl/incline-bicep-curls/

How To Do Incline Bicep Curls
Incline Bicep Curls
Jump straight to the tutorial
The
incline bicep curl
trains the biceps behind the body, creating a greater range of motion than the standard bicep curl and putting more emphasis on the long head of the bicep.
The incline bicep curl uses an incline bench and requires the performer to sit down and extend the arms so that they hang behind the body. Keeping the upper body, shoulders and upper arms in a strict position, the biceps are challenged to raise the dumbbells to shoulder height and back down again.
By having the load behind the body, it may feel as though the beginning of the exercise is the most challenging, however the most difficult portion is during the mid-range. The use of the incline bench further allows for the muscles to be trained through a greater range of motion and the varying angle makes for a well-rounded bicep regime.
Check out some other bicep curl variations:
pronated bicep curls
,
barbell bicep curls
,
dumbbell bicep curls
,
cable bicep curls
,
hammer curls
Commonly Asked Questions On Incline Bicep Curls
Are Incline Bicep Curls Good?
The incline bicep curl is a good variation which allows you to work the bicep through a greater range of motion and at a different angle to dumbbell bicep curls. This can help to further challenge the biceps and aid in hypertrophy and strength.
Why Do Incline Bicep Curls?
The incline bicep curl has a longer eccentric portion which can create a deeper stretch and help with hypertrophy and strength gains.
What Incline To Use For Incline Bicep Curls?
The bench should be set at a minimum of 45 degree angle, up to 60, to ensure the biceps are appropriately challenged.
Incline Bicep Curls Tips
To ensure the best out of the incline bicep curl, it’s important to get the incline right! Having too little of an incline is essentially the same as performing a seated dumbbell curl, meaning you won’t get the benefits of the greater range of motion or the angle that targets the long head of the bicep provided by the incline curl.
Making sure you maintain your position throughout the incline bicep curl is important. Keeping the upper back and shoulders pinned to the bench ensures there is no unnecessary involvement from these areas of the body, which keeps the tension on the biceps and prevents swinging.
Incline Bicep Curls Tips
Set up a bench at a 45-degree angle.
With a dumbbell in each hand, and the palms facing upwards, sit on the bench ensuring your upper back and shoulders are pinned to the support.
Ensure your arms are fully extended and your feet remain planted on the floor.
To begin the reps, squeeze your biceps and bend at the elbow as you lift the dumbbells to shoulder height.
To reverse the movement, by slowly lowering the dumbbells until they are in the starting position.
Back To Top
Back to all bicep exercises
Back to all exercises
If you’re not sure if any of the above exercises are suitable for you, please consult your doctor before you start it. Need guidance on how to perform the exercise? Ask a personal trainer at your gym.