Title: Preacher Curls
URL: https://www.puregym.com/exercises/arms-and-shoulders/bicep-curl/preacher-curls/

Preacher Curls
What Is A Preacher Curl
Jump straight to the tutorial
The
preacher curl
is a variation of the barbell bicep curl which uses a preacher bench and EZ bar to isolate the biceps and prevent the rest of the upper body from helping to move the load. The brachialis (forearms) are also worked in this exercise.
The slant of the preacher bench allows lifters to practise their bicep curl form with the upper arm support, which helps to perform a slow controlled movement for both the concentric and eccentric portion. This can help to build mind muscle connection and improve curl form.
Using an EZ bar also puts less strain on the elbow and wrist joint and may be more appropriate if you are prone to wrist pain.
Check out some other bicep curl variations:
spider curls
,
zottman curls
,
incline bicep curls
,
pronated bicep curls
,
barbell bicep curls
Commonly Asked Questions On Preacher Curls
What Does The Preacher Curl Work?
Preacher curls work the biceps and brachialis. Due to the positioning of the preacher bench, there is less involvement from the chest, shoulders, and core compared to other bicep curl variations.
How Heavy Is A Preacher Curl Bar?
Preacher curl bars (EZ bars) can vary in weight but are typically between 6-14kg for the bar alone. Weight plates can be added to increase the load.
Are Preacher Curls Better Than Standing Curls?
Preacher curls are not necessarily better or worse than standing bicep curls, but both exercises offer different benefits. Preacher curls eliminate momentum and involvement from other muscles to isolate the biceps more. It can be helpful to improve form and build mind muscle connection.
You’ll likely be able to lift more with standing barbell curls as the biceps have support from supporting muscles, which can help with hypertrophy and strength. Try including both variations in your weekly training routine.
Preacher Curls Tips
The preacher curl can feel more challenging to other bicep exercises, particularly during the first portion of the movement when then arms are extended. It’s important to still ensure full range of motion to maximise the benefits of this exercise.
The use of the E-Z bar aids in putting less pressure on the wrists and forearms and therefore may be more suitable for those prone to wrist pain, however it is still important to ensure your wrists are straight throughout the whole exercise.
How To Do A Preacher Curl
Sit down on a bench so that your knees are at 90 degrees and your feet are planted on the floor.
Holding a dumbbell in the working hand, place the elbow onto your inner thigh. Rest your other hand on the opposing leg to balance yourself.
Push your elbow into your thigh as you bend it, curling the dumbbell towards your shoulder.
Once you’ve curled all the way up, take a short pause before slowly lowering the dumbbell back to the starting position.
Complete reps on one side before commencing on the other side.
Back To Top
Back to all bicep exercises
Back to all exercises
If you’re not sure if any of the above exercises are suitable for you, please consult your doctor before you start it. Need guidance on how to perform the exercise? Ask a personal trainer at your gym.