Title: Reverse Curls
URL: https://www.puregym.com/exercises/arms-and-shoulders/bicep-curl/pronated-bicep-curls/

Reverse Curls
What Is A Reverse Curl (Pronated Curl)
Jump straight to the tutorial
The
pronated curl, also known as reverse curl
, follows the same movement pattern as the bicep curl to bring the weight to the shoulders, but uses a reversed grip so that the palms are facing downwards. This can be done with dumbbells, barbells, and EZ bars.
Like the standard bicep curl, the reverse curl uses elbow flexion to lift the load, challenging the biceps, grip strength, and forearms. While many bicep variations also target the forearms, the pronated grip enhances the forearms involvement further making it a useful move for those looking to improve their overall arm strength.
The concentric portion (the lifting of the load) of the movement is the most challenging, while the eccentric portion (the lowering of the barbell) feels easier. To ensure effective reps, it is best to control both portions of the exercise, thinking about contracting your biceps without rushing through the movement.
Check out some other bicep curl variations:
barbell bicep curls
,
dumbbell bicep curls
,
cable bicep curls
,
hammer curls
,
concentration curls
Commonly Asked Questions On Reverse Curls
Do Pronated Curls Work Brachialis?
The brachialis muscle is located in the upper arm beneath the bicep brachii muscle, and along with the biceps help to flex the elbow. All bicep curls involve elbow flexion, including the reverse curl, so the brachialis is engaged.
What Muscles Do Inverted Curls Work?
Pronated or inverted curls challenge the biceps, brachialis, forearms, and grip strength. The core muscles are also engaged to help stabilise the movement.
What Is The Difference Between Supinated And Pronated Grip?
A supinated grip involves gripping the barbell with an underhand grip so that your palms are facing towards you. A pronated grip means the barbell is held using an overhand grip so that your palms are facing away from you.
Reverse Curls Tips
The pronated grip used in this type of curl can feel unnatural for some and ensuring the elbows remain in the correct place can be made challenging. Most people are unable to lift as heavy with the pronated curl as they can a convention bicep curl. Finding a weight that is manageable will help to keep the elbows in place.
How To Do A Reverse Curl/ Pronated Curl
Stand tall with shoulders back and engage your core.
Grip your weights (dumbbell, barbell or EZ bar) using a pronated grip so that your palms are facing downwards.
Squeeze your biceps as you bend at the elbows to curl the barbell towards your shoulders, making sure to keep your elbows close to your sides.
Lower the weights slowly, until it returns to the starting position.
Back To Top
Back to all bicep exercises
Back to all exercises
If you’re not sure if any of the above exercises are suitable for you, please consult your doctor before you start it. Need guidance on how to perform the exercise? Ask a personal trainer at your gym.