Title: Zottman Curls
URL: https://www.puregym.com/exercises/arms-and-shoulders/bicep-curl/zottman-curls/

Zottman Curls
What Is A Zottman Curl
Jump straight to the tutorial
The
Zottman curl
is a dumbbell curl variation that uses both the supinated and pronated grip during the exercise. A supinated grip, where the palms are facing upwards, is used for the concentric portion of the movement, while a pronated grip, where the palms are facing downwards, is used for the eccentric portion.
While it is just the last portion of the movement that uses a pronated grip, the forearms are exposed to greater load than if performing the standard bicep curl or pronated curl as the biceps can manage a greater load than if using a pronated grip for the entirety of the movement.
The Zottman curl trains the biceps, forearms and grip strength making it a challenging movement that contributes to overall arm strength.
Check out some other bicep curl variations:
incline bicep curls
,
pronated bicep curls
,
barbell bicep curls
,
dumbbell bicep curls
,
cable bicep curls
Commonly Asked Questions On Zottman Curls
What Are Zottman Curls Good For?
Zottman curls are an effective way to target both heads of the bicep, as well as the forearms and grip strength. The use of the pronated and supinated grip allows the forearms to be exposed to a greater load than doing either grip alone.
Many lifters disregard the eccentric portion of the movement, falsely believing the muscle just works during the concentric phase. With its difference in grip mid-way through the movement, the Zottman curl aids in highlighting the eccentric, and is likely to encourage lifters to place more focus on this part of the lift than they might normally do with other bicep curl variations.
What Muscles Do Zottman Curls Work?
Zottman curls primarily challenge the biceps, but also work the forearms and grip. The core is also engaged to stabilise the body throughout the exercise.
Is The Zottman Curl Worth It?
Zottman curls are a worthwhile exercise to add to your upper body workouts! They are effective at challenging the biceps while also adding variation to your exercise regime.
Zottman Curls Tips
As with other dumbbell curl variations, it’s best to avoid momentum to get the best out of this exercise! Using momentum to swing the weight up makes the shoulders shift forwards, which moves focus away from the biceps and onto the shoulders instead. To avoid this, try to think about pinning your elbows close to your side without touching it. When you begin to fatigue and start to use momentum, stop your set and rest or lighten the load if you’re looking for more reps!
How To Do A Zottman Curl
Stand up straight holding a dumbbell in each hand with a supinated grip so that your palms are facing away from you, elbows by your side.
Engage your core and squeeze your biceps as you bend at the elbow to curl both dumbbells up to your shoulder. The top of your arms should remain still.
Pause in the top position before rotating your wrists inwards so that your palms are facing downwards.
Squeeze your biceps as you slowly lower the dumbbells until your arms are extended.
Rotate your wrists outwards so that your palms are facing upwards and repeat.
Back To Top
Back to all bicep exercises
Back to all exercises
If you’re not sure if any of the above exercises are suitable for you, please consult your doctor before you start it. Need guidance on how to perform the exercise? Ask a personal trainer at your gym.