Title: Forearm  Grip Exercises
URL: https://www.puregym.com/exercises/arms-and-shoulders/forearm-and-grip-exercises/

Forearm & Grip Exercises
Why should I train forearms and grip?
See all forearm and grip exercises
If you're mainly building muscle for aesthetic reasons, chances are you've been neglecting your
grip and forearm strength
. While big forearms may not look as impressive as bulging biceps, training your forearms and grip can have serious benefits, including improvements in almost all of your lifts.
Deadlifts, pull ups, bench press, and so many more exercises rely on strong grip, wrists, and forearms - and while these muscles are getting worked in any exercise where you hold equipment, they often don't progress fast enough without specific training. While wrist straps can help in the gym to some extent, having a strong grip will allow you to lift heavier for longer.
Getting stronger at the gym isn't the only reason to train your grip and forearms. You use your grip and forearms daily, from carrying the shopping to using a computer, so they're prone to overuse injuries. Strength training can help to increase endurance and prevent injuries from occurring.
Check out our other arm and shoulder exercises:
Bicep curls
,
Front raises
,
Lateral raises
,
Rear delt exercises
,
Shoulder presses
,
Tricep extensions
,
Upright rows
Commonly asked questions on forearms and grip strength
How often should I do hand grip exercises?
If you are lifting weights regularly, you'll already be training your forearm and grip to some extent. Try adding 1 or 2 exercises to the end of your workouts 2-3x a week.
Do wrist curls improve grip strength?
Wrist curls are an isolation exercise that strengthen the muscles in the forearm and hands, and can be used to improve your grip strength.
What muscles does the farmer's walk work?
The farmer's walk exercise, also known as farmer's carry, works multiple muscles in the body including muscles in the hands (grip), forearms and arms, shoulders, back, core, and even the legs and glutes.
How often should you do farmers walks?
The farmer's walk is an excellent exercise but can be quite taxing. You should look to add this exercise into your routine 1-2 times a week.
Forearm and grip exercises
The farmers walk builds forearm and grip strength while working the back, shoulders, core, legs, and glutes.
Farmers Walk
Plate pinches are great for building grip strength and endurance and can help with compound lifts like deadlifts.
Plate Pinch
Dumbbell wrist curls develop flexion strength in the forearms and wrists which improves your grip for barbell and pull up work.
Wrist Curls
Wrist extensions with dumbbells improves strength and endurance in the hard-working muscles of the forearms.
Wrist Extensions
Back to top
Back to arms and shoulders
Back to all exercises
If you’re not sure if any of the above exercises are suitable for you, please consult your doctor before you start it. Need guidance on how to perform the exercise? Ask a personal trainer at your gym.