Title: Farmers Walk
URL: https://www.puregym.com/exercises/arms-and-shoulders/forearm-and-grip-exercises/farmers-walk/

Farmers Walk
What Is A Farmers Walk?
Jump straight to instructions
The
farmers walk
, also called a farmers carry, is a simple but challenging exercise that works almost every muscle in the body. farmers walk involves walking for time or for distance with a heavy weight in each hand. This exercise is usually performed with kettlebells or dumbbells but can be done with special farmers walk handles.
The farmers walk is a functional exercise that has its roots in strongman training. It is an excellent
forearm and grip exercise
that will fatigue the muscles of your hands, wrists, and forearms as you hold on to the heavy weights whilst walking, however doing farmers walk builds all-over strength which will improve your strength for many other gym exercises, sports, and everyday movements.
In addition to the forearms and hands, farmers walks also work your shoulders and arms, back (especially the trapezius muscle of the upper back), core, legs, and glutes. It's a great functional exercise that could be done as part of a full-body workout, conditioning work, or on leg, back, or arm day. If you are working on your forearm and grip strength, combine farmers walk with other
arm exercises
that target the hands, wrists, and
forearms
.
Take time to master the technique of a farmers walk with our tips and technique video below.
Check out some other forearm and grip exercises:
Plate Pinch
,
Wrist Curls
,
Wrist Extensions
Commonly Asked Questions About Farmers Walk
What Do Farmers Walks Work?
Farmers walks work the grip and forearms, as well as the muscles of the back, shoulders, arms, core, glutes, and legs. The farmers walk is also an effective conditioning exercise with cardiovascular benefits.
Do Farmers Walks Build Forearms?
Yes, farmers walks can build strength, size, and muscular endurance in the forearms. It's important to
progressive overload
this exercise for continued gains by increasing the time, distance or weights.
How Long Should A Farmers Walk Be?
There is no set distance for a farmers walk or farmers carry exercise. If your goal is grip and forearm strength, use a heavier weight and do 3-6 sets of a 30 metre walk. If your training goal is fitness and endurance, choose a slightly lighter weight and walk for as long with good form. You could also perform farmers walk by time rather than distance. Walk for 30-45 seconds, rest for a short time, and repeat for 4-8 sets.
Farmers Walk Tips
Use kettlebells, dumbbells, or farmers walk handles if you have access to them.
Keep your torso straight and eyes forward to prevent rounding your back as you walk.
Form is more important than weight, so choose a weight that you can walk with for at least 20 seconds.
Reduce the weight if your grip or core strength is compromised during the farmers walk.
How To Do Farmers Walk
Put a pair of dumbbells or kettlebells on the floor hip-width apart and stand between them.
Squat down with your chest high to take hold of the weights.
Brace your core, glutes, and lats as you stand up with the weights.
Pull your shoulders back and down and engage your core and glutes as you start to walk.
Take small steps rather than large strides as you walk forward in a straight line.
If you need to turn 180 degrees during your farmers walk, place the weights on the floor, turn your body, and pick them up again with control.
At the end of your farmers walk, stop with your feet under your hips and squat down to put the weights on the floor carefully.
Back To Top
Back To All Forearm and Grip Exercises
Back to all exercises
If you’re not sure if any of the above exercises are suitable for you, please consult your doctor before you start it. Need guidance on how to perform the exercise? Ask a personal trainer at your gym.