Title: Barbell Front Raise
URL: https://www.puregym.com/exercises/arms-and-shoulders/front-raises/barbell-front-raise/

Barbell Front Raise
What Is A Barbell Front Raise
Jump to instructions
The
barbell front raise
requires performers to sweep the barbell from hip height away from the body in an arc direction until the barbell and arms reach shoulder height. The use of the barbell is likely to allow greater loading than the dumbbell version and can be a good variation if you're experiencing a plateau with the dumbbell front raise.
It is an isolation exercise that works the deltoids, with the anterior deltoids (front of shoulders) doing the bulk of the work. While an effective exercise to build strength and stability in the shoulders, it should be used alongside
overhead pressing movements
to ensure a well-rounded shoulder regime.
Check out our other front raise variations:
dumbbell front raise
,
cable front raise
,
plate front raise
Commonly Asked Questions On Barbell Front Raises
Do Barbell Front Raises Work The Side Delts?
Barbell front raises work the side delts, however they have a greater focus on the anterior delts.
Lateral raises
are more effective at working the side delts, so if this is a focus of yours add these into your training programme.
What Muscles Do Barbell Front Raises Work?
Barbell front raises work the anterior deltoids and side deltoids, with the traps (upper back) and the pecs (chest) working to help stabilise the shoulders.
Are Barbell Front Raises Bad For The Shoulders?
Front raises are not inherently bad for shoulders, and in fact can help to build shoulder strength which can protect against injuries. However, it is important to stick to a weight that is challenging but allows for correct form to be adhered to, as performing front raises with bad form can lead to injury.
Barbell Front Raise Tips
Shoulder pain is sometimes complained of when lifters utilise pressing or raising movements, however this discomfort usually comes from incorrect form. For front raises, opting for a lighter weight that allows you to reach a mid rep range (6-10) is more sensible than choosing a heavy weight for low reps, and will help to ensure that the correct muscles are being worked.
Core engagement is also important to ensure that the lower back remains protected, and the work is carried out by the deltoids. Bracing your core throughout the movement helps to prevent relying on momentum to bring the weight up and protects the lumbar spine from unnecessary stress. If you are unable to engage your core to prevent swinging the weight, try a seated position or lighter load.
How To Do A Barbell Front Raise
Hold a barbell with both hands around shoulder width apart using a pronated grip, so that your palms are facing downwards.
Brace your core and begin the reps by sweeping the barbell upwards in an arc direction until the barbell and arms are at shoulder height, keeping elbows extended.
Revert the movement by slowly lowering the barbell until it returns to the beginning position.
Back To Top
Back To All Front Raises
Back to all exercises
If you’re not sure if any of the above exercises are suitable for you, please consult your doctor before you start it. Need guidance on how to perform the exercise? Ask a personal trainer at your gym.