Title: Plate Front Raise
URL: https://www.puregym.com/exercises/arms-and-shoulders/front-raises/plate-front-raise/

Plate Front Raise
What Is A Plate Front Raise
Jump to instructions
The
front plate raise
is a front raise variation that challenges the lifter to raise a weight plate from hip height in an arc direction until the arms are straight ahead and the plate is at shoulder height. Due to the shape of the plate, a neutral grip is used, where other variations use a pronated grip. The neutral grip can provide a more comfortable position for the shoulder joint and may allow for a greater load to be lifted.
This exercise requires a good level of core stability and strength to ensure the lower back is not placed under unnecessary stress. Ensuring the core is braced throughout the movement also keeps the focus of the movement on the deltoids.
Check out our other front raise variations:
barbell front raise
,
dumbbell front raise
,
cable front raise
Commonly Asked Questions On Plate Front Raises
Are Front Plate Raises Good?
Front plate raises are a good exercise for challenging the deltoids. The plate raise also requires core involvement to ensure the body remains stable throughout to keep the tension on the shoulders.
What Muscles Do Front Plate Raises Work?
Front plate raises mainly work the medial and anterior deltoids, with the traps and chest helping to stabilise the movement. The core is also engaged to keep the body stable.
Are Front Raises Actually Effective?
Front raises are an effective exercise to help build shoulder strength and stability. To get optimal results, combine front raises with pressing movements like the overhead press.
Plate Front Raise Tips
It’s important to avoid using momentum to lift the plate as this removes tension from the shoulders. If you find you’re struggling to remain stable or lift the weight without swinging, reduce the load or try a seated position.
To adopt the correct grip and positioning, think about placing your hands on the plate at 3 o’clock and 9 o’clock. This will ensure your hands are in the optimal position to lift the plate, allowing for an effective lift while also minimising strain on the shoulder joint.
How To Do A Plate Front Raise
Select a weight plate and hold with both hands using a neutral grip so that the palms are facing each other.
Brace your core and begin the reps by sweeping the plate upwards in an arc direction until your hands and the plate are at shoulder height.
Revert the movement by slowly lowering the plate until it returns to the beginning position.
Back To Top
Back To All Front Raises
Back to all exercises
If you’re not sure if any of the above exercises are suitable for you, please consult your doctor before you start it. Need guidance on how to perform the exercise? Ask a personal trainer at your gym.