Title: Cable Front Raise
URL: https://www.puregym.com/exercises/arms-and-shoulders/front-raises/cable-front-raise/

Cable Front Raise
What Is A Cable Front Raise
Jump to instructions
The
cable front raise
uses a straight bar attachment set in a low position on the cable machine to mimic the barbell front raise by challenging the performer to lift the bar in an arc direction from hip height to shoulder height.
Using a cable machine provides constant tension to the deltoids throughout the entire lift. While using free weights is effective, the tension is often reduced during the eccentric portion of the lift as gravity assists the weight on the way down. With a cable machine, the centre of gravity changes so that there is constant tension throughout the lift, which can mean this is more efficient for hypertrophy and strength gains.
Check out our other front raise variations:
barbell front raise
,
dumbbell front raise
,
plate front raise
Commonly Asked Questions On Cable Front Raises
What Do Cable Front Raises Work?
Cable front raises primarily work the anterior deltoids, but the lateral delts, traps and pecs are also worked to help stabilise the shoulders. The core will also be worked as it must be engaged to keep the body stable and keep tension on the delts.
Are Cable Front Raises Bad For Shoulders?
Performed correctly, cable front raises are not bad for your shoulders. Maintaining good form and only raising the cable to shoulder height will help to minimise risk of injury and avoid exposing the shoulder joint to unnecessary pressure.
Cable Front Raise Vs Dumbbell Front Raise?
Both the cable and dumbbell front row are effective exercises that target the anterior and medial delts, but cable front raises may be better for strength while dumbbell front raises may be better for stability.
The cable variation increases the total time the delts spend under tension compared to the dumbbells which can be helpful for building strength and hypertrophy, however the dumbbell variation provides a greater challenge to shoulder stability as the use of free weights means the joint must work harder to move the dumbbells in the correct position.
Cable Front Raise Tips
The cable variation of the front raise can be useful if you’re new to this movement or looking to improve form. The use of the cable is safer than using free weights as the cable line allows for a more stable bar path with minimal risk of dropping the load.
If you find your torso rocking forward to lift the weight, it’s likely the weight is too heavy. Reduce the weight until you can perform the desired reps without swinging forward, as this will ensure the exercise targets the delts.
How To Do A Cable Front Raise
Select a weight plate and hold with both hands using a neutral grip so that the palms are facing each other.
Facing away from the cable machine, grip the straight bare using a pronated grip, so that your palms are facing downwards.
Brace your core and begin the reps by sweeping the plate upwards in an arc direction until your hands and the plate are at shoulder height.
Revert the movement by slowly lowering the plate until it returns to the beginning position.
Back To Top
Back To All Front Raises
Back to all exercises
If you’re not sure if any of the above exercises are suitable for you, please consult your doctor before you start it. Need guidance on how to perform the exercise? Ask a personal trainer at your gym.