Title: Seated Lateral Raise
URL: https://www.puregym.com/exercises/arms-and-shoulders/lateral-raises/seated-lateral-raise/

Seated Lateral Raise
What Is A Seated Lateral Raise?
Jump straight to instructions
Seated lateral raises
are a variation of dumbbell
lateral raise
that are performed sitting on a bench. Doing lateral raises in a seated position removes the ability to use momentum to lift the dumbbells, and focuses all of the work in the shoulder muscles. If you find your core or glutes aren't strong enough to support you during standing dumbbell lateral raises, or you rely on momentum at the end of your sets, try seated lateral raises to bring all the work back to the shoulder muscles.
The shoulders are a complex joint with three muscles -- the anterior (front) deltoids, the lateral (mid) deltoids, and the posterior (rear deltoids). Lateral raises,
front raises
and
rear delt exercises
strengthen the shoulder muscles and the smaller stabilising muscles to help protect the shoulders against injury.
The lateral deltoids are the largest of the shoulder muscles, giving the shoulders their size and shape. The majority of your shoulder training should focus on push exercises, including lateral raises, that add size and strength to the lateral delt muscle.
Seated lateral raises are a good way to completely isolate the lateral deltoid to target this important muscle. From the seated position, you can introduce variables like tempo, partial reps, or dropsets to make seated lateral raises more challenging.
Check out some other lateral raise exercises:
Dumbbell Lateral Raise
,
Cable Lateral Raise
Commonly Asked Questions About Seated Lateral Raises
Are Seated Lateral Raises Better Than Standing?
Seated lateral raises can be a better option than standing dumbbell lateral raises if you find that you rely on momentum to lift the dumbbells when standing. Performing lateral raises in a sitting position completely isolates the work in the shoulders, so you will be able to target the lateral deltoid more effectively even with lighter dumbbells.
Should I Do Lateral Raises Seated Or Standing?
If you can do standing lateral dumbbell raises without using momentum or leg drive to lift the dumbbells, continue to do them standing. Seated lateral raises are a great way to completely isolate the shoulders. Even if you can do standing dumbbell lateral raises, you might choose to do the seated version once you start to fatigue.
Are Seated Lateral Raises Good?
Seated lateral raises are an effective way to isolate the shoulders, by removing your ability to use momentum. Sitting down takes your legs, glutes, and core out of the movement so you can focus all of the work in the lateral deltoid muscle of the shoulders.
Seated Lateral Raise Tips
Set the bench up so the back is vertical, and sit with your back pressing into the pad.
Start with light dumbbells (seated dumbbell lateral raises feel more challenging than the standing version).
Keep your body upright to focus the work in the lateral head of the deltoids.
Think about keeping your little fingers and elbows high throughout the lateral raise movement.
How To Do Seated Lateral Raises
Sit on the bench with your feet flat on the floor around shoulder-width apart.
Hold a dumbbell in each hand at your sides, palms facing inwards.
Raise the dumbbells out to the side with control, leading the movement with your elbows.
Keep a slight bend in your elbows throughout the movement.
Stop when your elbows are at shoulder height.
Pause at the top of the movement before slowly lowering the dumbbells back to your sides.
Back To Top
Back To All Lateral Raises
Back to all exercises
If you’re not sure if any of the above exercises are suitable for you, please consult your doctor before you start it. Need guidance on how to perform the exercise? Ask a personal trainer at your gym.