Title: Z Press
URL: https://www.puregym.com/exercises/arms-and-shoulders/shoulder-press/z-press/

Z Press
What Is A Z Press?
Jump to instructions
The
Z press
is a shoulder press variation that targets the deltoids, triceps and clavicular head of the chest while also aiding posture, mobility, and stability. In this exercise, the person sits upright on the floor with legs extended in front. This reduces involvement from the lower body and helps to isolate the deltoids more.
The Z press can use varying equipment, including a barbell, dumbbells, and kettlebells to challenge the performer. Utilising a seated position, the Z press requires greater involvement from the core muscles to remain stable throughout the lift.
Check out some other shoulder press variations:
military press
,
dumbbell shoulder press
,
seated shoulder press
,
barbell push press
,
Arnold press
Commonly Asked Questions On Z Press
What Does The Z Press Work?
The Z press targets the deltoids, triceps, upper chest, and traps. The core also has to work to keep the posture stable, and can help with hip mobility, hamstring flexibility, and overall stability.
Why Is The Z Press So Hard?
The Z press is a challenging movement as it forced you to remain in an upright position, with little support from the legs. This means the core and upper body have to work harder to maintain stability and power the press.
Is The Z Press Better Than The Shoulder Press?
The Z press is not necessarily better or worse than the shoulder press, and the variation you choose will depend on what you want to achieve from the lift. Most people are able to lift heavier with other shoulder presses like the
military press
, which is useful if your goal is muscular hypertrophy and strength. The Z press engages the core more and will see better improvements in stability, both which can help you to lift heavier in other pushing exercises. Implementing both types of presses in a workout plan is likely to be effective in ensuring a well-rounded shoulder routine.
Z Press Tips
It is likely the Z press will feel more challenging than other shoulder press variations due to the reduced involvement of the lower body. Maintaining an upright posture throughout is important as it prevents unnecessary pressure on the lower back. Choose a load which is challenging but allows the correct form throughout.
How To Do A Z Press
Sit down on the floor and extend your legs straight out in front so they’re flat on the ground, between hip and shoulder width apart.
Lift the dumbbells, barbell, or kettlebells so they are positioned between your shoulders and ears.
Engage your core and, keeping your legs in contact with the floor, extend both arms up to press the load above your head.
Slowly lower the weights back to the starting position.
Back To Top
Back To All Shoulder Press Exercises
Back to all exercises
If you’re not sure if any of the above exercises are suitable for you, please consult your doctor before you start it. Need guidance on how to perform the exercise? Ask a personal trainer at your gym.