Title: Shoulder Press Machine
URL: https://www.puregym.com/exercises/arms-and-shoulders/shoulder-press/shoulder-press-machine/

Shoulder Press Machine
What Is The Shoulder Press Machine
Jump to instructions
The
seated shoulder press machine
is a fixed weight machine that replicates the movement of a
seated shoulder press
. The shoulder press machine primarily targets the deltoids, with some involvement from the triceps and clavicular head of the pecs.
The shoulder press machine is a great place to start if you're new to weight training as it allows you to become familiar with the movement and strengthen the shoulders while minimising the risk of injury.
Check out some other shoulder press variations:
Z press
,
military press
,
dumbbell shoulder press
,
seated shoulder press
,
barbell push press
Commonly Asked Questions On Shoulder Press Machine
Is The Shoulder Press Machine Effective?
Using the shoulder press machine is an effective way for both beginners and advanced lifters to strengthen the shoulders. The machine provides stability and ensures the correct position is adopted, meaning the correct muscle groups are targeted. For beginners, the shoulder press machine reduces the risk of injury and helps to build strength. For advanced lifters, the machine challenges lifters to work through a full range of motion with correct form and not ‘cheat’ the movement as they might do with free weights.
What Muscle Does The Shoulder Press Machine Work?
The shoulder press machine primarily works the deltoids, however the pecs, triceps, and core are also utilised. In addition, this exercise helps to improve stability and coordination.
Is Shoulder Press Machine Better Than Using Dumbbells?
The shoulder press machine and
dumbbell shoulder press
are both useful exercises and neither is necessarily better than the other. The shoulder press machine can allow the deltoids to be worked more effectively due to the correct fixed position, as well as by eliminating fatigue from having to stabilise the weights. The dumbbell shoulder press recruits more muscles, including stabilising muscles, and is more likely to improve stability and coordination. Including both in a workout plan is a great option.
Shoulder Press Machine Tips
If opting for the seated barbell shoulder press, you can set up in a squat rack by placing an adjustable bench beneath the bar. Aim to lower the bar all the way to the top of your chest; if you’re able to reach this depth, drop the weight. For the dumbbell press, aim to bring the dumbbells in line with or lower than your ears.
If you find your rotator cuff feels under stress during this exercise, it can be down to the arms being positioned directly to the side of your head. Try positioning the arms so they are slightly in front of the body as this puts less strain on the shoulders.
How To Do A Shoulder Press Machine
Sit down and place your back flat against the support, then adjust the seat so that the handles are at shoulder height.
Grip the handles and ensure your feet remain planted on the floor. To commence the movement, push the handles upwards until the arms are extended.
Slowly lower the handles back to the starting position before starting the next rep.
Back To Top
Back To All Shoulder Press Exercises
Back to all exercises
If you’re not sure if any of the above exercises are suitable for you, please consult your doctor before you start it. Need guidance on how to perform the exercise? Ask a personal trainer at your gym.