Title: Tricep Pushdowns
URL: https://www.puregym.com/exercises/arms-and-shoulders/tricep-extension/tricep-pushdowns/

Tricep Pushdowns
What Is A Tricep Pushdown
Jump to instructions
The
tricep pushdown
uses a cable machine to train the tricep heads, with the medial and lateral heads mainly being targeted. The exercise involves pushing weight from around chest height down to the upper thigh. Both a straight bar and rope attachment can be used for this exercise.
With free weights, the tension is often reduced during the eccentric part of the movement (when the weight goes with gravity). Because the centre of gravity is different with a cable machine, tension is placed on the triceps throughout the entire movement, with greater focus on the eccentric portion of the movement compared to free weights, which can be beneficial for strength and hypertrophy.
Check out some other tricep extension variations:
overhead tricep extension
,
skull crushers
,
tricep kickbacks
,
tricep dips
Commonly Asked Questions On Tricep Pushdowns
What Is A Tricep Pushdown Good For?
The tricep pushdown works the medial and lateral heads of the triceps and is a great move for strengthening and toning the arms. Improving tricep strength can translate to stronger upper body lifts too.
Should I Go Heavy On Tricep Pushdowns?
Tricep pushdowns are an isolation exercise, and it’s unlikely you’ll be able to lift heavy loads with good form. Choose a weight that allows you to perform close to failure within your desired reps while maintaining good form.
Are Tricep Pushdowns Worth It?
Tricep pushdowns are a great addition to any programme with strength and hypertrophy as the goal.
Tricep Pushdowns Tips
It can be tempting to lean forwards during this exercise, however doing so can result in the shoulders rounding forwards and taking over the movement rather than the triceps driving. To avoid this, pull your shoulder blades back, maintain a neutral spine, and slightly hinge forward at the hips.
Make sure to choose a weight that allows for full elbow extension and control, as full range of motion will give the most benefits.
How To Do A Tricep Pushdown
Set up the cable pulley so it’s just above head height and attach a straight bar or rope attachment – this should hang around chest height.
Adopt a hip width stance and grip the attachment.
Slightly bend the knees, engage the core, and pin your shoulder blades back.
Keeping your elbows and upper arms close to your sides throughout, squeeze your triceps as you push the load downwards until your arms are extended.
To complete the rep slowly allow the weight to return to the starting position.
Back To Top
Back to all tricep exercises
Back to all exercises
If you’re not sure if any of the above exercises are suitable for you, please consult your doctor before you start it. Need guidance on how to perform the exercise? Ask a personal trainer at your gym.