Title: Wide Grip Lat Pulldowns
URL: https://www.puregym.com/exercises/back/lat-exercises/wide-grip-lat-pulldown/

Wide Grip Lat Pulldowns
What Is A Wide Grip Lat Pulldown?
Jump straight to instructions
The
wide grip lat pulldown
is a variation of the lat pulldown that uses a wider grip placement, shifting some tension away from the biceps and middle back to place more emphasis on the lats. It's an excellent upper body movement for improving both strength and size of the lats, as well as overall shoulder stability. They can also help to build the strength needed for pull ups
Wide grip pulldowns are more challenging than other grip placements as there is less involvement from the back and biceps, so it's unlikely you'll be able to lift as much weight with this variation.
Check out some other lat pulldown variations:
reverse grip lat pulldowns
,
straight arm lat pulldowns
,
single arm lat pulldowns
,
kneeling lat pulldowns
,
lat pulldowns
Commonly Asked Questions On Wide Grip Lat Pulldown
Is A Wide Grip Better For Lat Pulldowns?
Wide grip lat pulldowns are not necessarily better or worse than
conventional lat pulldowns
. Altering the grip placement emphasises different muscle groups, so the variation you choose should reflect your goals. Wide grip lat pulldowns place more emphasis on the lats, while conventional or close grip lat pulldowns engage the biceps and middle back more.
Incorporating multiple grips into your routine is a great way to get the benefits of both.
What Muscles Do The Wide-Grip Pulldown Work?
Wide grip lat pulldowns primarily work the latissimus dorsi, with the biceps, rhomboids, traps, and rear delts also challenged.
What Is The Difference Between A Lat Pulldown And A Wide-Grip Pulldown?
Wide grip lat pulldowns are a variation of the lat pulldown that uses a wider grip placement to put more emphasis on the lats. Because there is less involvement from the middle back and biceps, most people have to use a lighter weight with wide grip lat pulldowns.
Wide Grip Lat Pulldown Tips
Maintaining good form is key to challenging the lats and avoiding injury. Choose a weight that allows you to move the bar with control while keeping the torso still. If you have to excessively lean back or swing the bar to move it, drop the weights.
How To Do A Wide Grip Lat Pulldown
Sit down on the lat pulldown machine and adjust the knee pad so it fits securely on your thighs. Select the weight.
Stand up and grip the bar with an overhand grip grip, hands slightly wider than shoulder-width apart, and then sit back down. The further away your hands are, the heavier it will feel.
Lean slightly back with a straight spine and feet flat on the floor, then pull the bar down towards your upper chest by pulling the elbows down and back.
Once the bar reaches just below chin height, slowly return it to the starting position by extending your arms.
Back to top
Back to all lat exercises
Back to all exercises
If you’re not sure if any of the above exercises are suitable for you, please consult your doctor before you start it. Need guidance on how to perform the exercise? Ask a personal trainer at your gym.