Title: Single Arm Lat Pulldowns
URL: https://www.puregym.com/exercises/back/lat-exercises/single-arm-lat-pulldown/

Single Arm Lat Pulldowns
What Is A Single Arm Lat Pulldown?
Jump straight to instructions
The
single arm lat pulldown
is a unilateral variation of the
lat pulldown
. Performed on either the lat pulldown machine or a cable machine, the single arm lat pulldown strengthens each side of the back and biceps individually. There is also more involvement from the core, particularly the obliques, as they must work to keep the torso upright and prevent it from twisting.
Unilateral exercises are helpful for identifying and minimising muscular imbalances between the two sides, reducing the risk of injury and improving overall strength, stability, and coordination. While you typically have to use a lighter load than 50% of what you can pull with bilateral lat pulldowns due to instability, single arm lat pulldowns do contribute to bilateral strength.
Check out some other lat pulldown variations:
kneeling lat pulldowns
,
lat pulldowns
,
close grip lat pulldowns
,
wide grip lat pulldowns
,
reverse grip lat pulldowns
,
Commonly Asked Questions On Single Arm Lat Pulldowns
Is The Single Arm Lat Pulldown Effective?
The single arm lat pulldown is an effective exercise for improving back strength and stability and reducing muscular imbalances. It’s also useful for building mind to muscle connection. It’s unlikely you will be able to lift as much per arm as you can with the conventional lat pulldown, so it’s worth combining both exercises into your routine to gain maximum benefits.
What Does Single Arm Lat Pulldown Work?
The single arm lat pulldown works the lats, biceps, rhomboids, and traps. The core, particularly the obliques, also must work hard to prevent the torso from twisting.
What’s The Difference Between A Single Arm Pulldown And A Lat Pulldown?
The single arm pulldown is a unilateral version of the lat pulldown. The movement pattern and muscles worked are the same, however the lat pulldown is better for strength and hypertrophy while the single arm variation is better for stability and improving muscular imbalances.
Single Arm Lat Pulldown Tips
The core must work hard in a single arm lat pulldown to prevent the torso from twisting. If you find your torso swings or twists, lower the load – this helps to keep the tension on the back.
How To Do Single Arm Lat Pulldowns On The Lat Pulldown Machine
Attach a single handle attachment to the lat pulldown machine.
Stand up to grip the attachment, before taking a seat, making sure your thighs are tightly secured underneath the pads.
Pull the attachment towards your upper chest by pulling your elbow back and down towards your back pocket. Pull the attachment towards your upper chest until it just passes chin height.
Reverse the movement by slowly extending the arms, allowing the cable to pull the attachment back up.
How To Do A Single Arm Lat Pulldown On The Cable Machine
Attach a single handle attachment to the cable machine.
Grip the attachment, before adopting a kneeling position on the floor.
Thinking about pulling your elbow back and down to pull the attachment towards your upper chest until it just passes chin height.
Reverse the movement by slowly extending the arms, allowing the cable to pull the attachment back up.
Back to top
Back to all lat exercises
Back to all exercises
If you’re not sure if any of the above exercises are suitable for you, please consult your doctor before you start it. Need guidance on how to perform the exercise? Ask a personal trainer at your gym.