Title: Close Lat Grip Pulldowns
URL: https://www.puregym.com/exercises/back/lat-exercises/close-grip-lat-pulldown/

Close Lat Grip Pulldowns
What Is A Close Grip Lat Pulldown?
Jump straight to instructions
The
close grip lat pulldown
is a lat pulldown variation which is performed with a close grip by using a v handle attachment.
Compared to the
traditional lat pulldown
, the close grip variation trains the lats through a greater range of motion and has greater involvement from the traps and rhomboids, making it an excellent exercise for back strength and hypertrophy.
The narrow grip mimics the grip used in a neutral grip chin up, so can also help to build the strength needed to build your chin ups.
Check out some other lat pulldown variations:
wide grip lat pulldowns
,
reverse grip lat pulldowns
,
straight arm lat pulldowns
,
single arm lat pulldowns
,
kneeling lat pulldowns
Commonly Asked Questions On Close Grip Lat Pulldown
What Muscles Does The Close Grip Lat Pulldown Work?
Like
conventional lat pulldowns
, the close grip lat pulldown works the back, including the latissimus dorsi, rhomboids, and traps, and the biceps. The increased range of motion means that more lat muscle fibres are contracted, and there is greater involvement from the traps and rhomboids too.
Alternatives To The Close Grip Lat Pulldown?
Chins ups and assisted chin ups are a good alternative to the close grip lat pulldown as they both use a narrow grip to train the back and biceps.
What Are The Benefits Of The Close Grip Lat Pulldown?
The close grip pulldown can provide a greater range of motion than the conventional lat pulldown, recruiting more muscle and allowing for greater load to be lifted – great for both strength and hypertrophy goals. The close grip movement can be easier to master, making it a beginner-friendly option too.
Close Grip Lat Pulldown Tips
The elbow positioning and path of movement of the close grip lat pulldown is different to that of a conventional lat pulldown. Instead of bringing the elbows to your back pockets, think about pulling your elbows down towards your hips until your upper arms are tucked either side of your torso and the v handle reaches just below the chin.
Pulling the grip down too low will force your forearms and deltoids to take over, shifting the load away from your lats and biceps and making the shoulders exposed to injury.
Move the weight with control rather than using momentum to ensure the correct muscles are worked. This is also important during the second portion of the close grip pull down when the load is returning to to the starting position. This portion of the movement is when the muscles are lengthening, known as the eccentric phase. Remaining strong throughout the eccentric phase enhances the lift technique, allowing for further muscle growth.
How To Do A Close Grip Lat Pulldown
Set up the lat pulldown machine by switching to a v handle attachment, selecting the weight, and adjusting the pads so they sit tightly against your thighs when you are seated.
Engage your core and then begin by pulling your elbows towards your hips to lower the handle towards your upper chest until it just passes chin height.
Reverse the movement by slowly extending the arms, allowing the cable to pull the handle back up.
Back to top
Back to all lat exercises
Back to all exercises
If you’re not sure if any of the above exercises are suitable for you, please consult your doctor before you start it. Need guidance on how to perform the exercise? Ask a personal trainer at your gym.