Title: T Bar Rows Landmine Rows
URL: https://www.puregym.com/exercises/back/rows/landmine-row/

T Bar Rows (Landmine Rows)
What Is A T Bar Row (Landmine Row)?
Jump straight to instructions
The
T-Bar row
, also known as a landmine row, uses a landmine attachment, barbell, and weight plates to train the upper back muscles, namely the lats, rhomboids, traps, rear delts, as well as the core. Adopting a wide grip places more focus on the rhomboids and trapezius, while a close V grip places more emphasis on the lats.
This movement involves a similar set up to that of the
bent over row
, requiring the performer to hip hinge and maintain a 45-degree torso throughout the exercise, with the glutes and hamstrings engages to maintain this position.
Because the landmine attachment is fixed to the floor, there is a more stable movement path which makes this variation easier than with free weights and targets the intended muscles more efficiently.
Check out some other row variations:
renegade row
,
barbell bent over row
,
dumbbell bent over row
,
single arm dumbbell row
,
incline row
,
Commonly Asked Questions On T Bar Rows (Landmine Rows)
What Does The T-Bar Row Work?
The T-bar row primarily works the latissimus dorsi, with the traps, rhomboids, rear delts, erector spinae and biceps also targeted. Due to the bent over position, the hamstrings, glutes, and core are also engaged in order to maintain stability in the position throughout.
Are T-Bar Rows Effective?
T-bar rows are an effective exercise for building strength and mass in the upper back. The fixed position of the landmine allows a greater load to be lifted, and the back muscles to be isolated more effectively, compared to free weight rows.
Do T-Bar Rows Work The Rear Delts?
Although the lats are the primary muscles targeted in T-bar rows, they do work the rear delts and can help to build their strength, size, and stability. However, if rear delts are a focus you may want to try rear delt rows or including
rear delt specific exercises
in your workout.
Does The T-Bar Row Work The Upper Back?
T-bar rows are a great way to work the upper back, including training the trapezius and rhomboids.
T Bar Row (Landmine Row) Tips
The T-bar set up involves a hip hinge, which can expose the lower back to risk of injury – maintaining correct form is important to protect the lower back. Practice your hip hinge with body weight before attempting the T-bar row. You should feel most of the weight in your hamstrings and glutes rather than the lower back, and your spine should remain neutral.
If you struggle to get into, or maintain, a hip hinge position due to hamstring or glute fatigue, you may benefit from switching to chest supported rows or seated cable rows. These remove demand on the lower body and isolate the back muscles so they can sufficiently challenged.
How To Do A T Bar Row (Landmine Row)
Attach a barbell to a landmine attachment and load the free end of the bar with weight plates, then place your grip of choice under the barbell below the plates, so you’re facing the plates.
Hinge forward at the hops until your torso is at a 45-degree angle and engage your core.
Row the handle towards your belly button. It can be helpful to think about pulling your elbows towards your hips.
Slowly return the barbell to the starting position by extending your arms down.
Once the set is complete, push your hips forwards to stand tall before deadlifting the bar back onto the floor.
Back to top
Back to all rows
Back to all exercises
If you’re not sure if any of the above exercises are suitable for you, please consult your doctor before you start it. Need guidance on how to perform the exercise? Ask a personal trainer at your gym.