Title: Renegade Rows
URL: https://www.puregym.com/exercises/back/rows/renegade-row/

Renegade Rows
What Is A Renegade Row?
Jump straight to instructions
The
renegade row
is an advanced
row variation
that combines the
plank
with the
single arm dumbbell row
for an exercise that challenges almost every muscle group in the body, particularly the upper back, shoulders, and core.
The rhomboids, traps, and rear deltoids are strengthened during the row element of renegade rows, while the obliques and abdominals have to work to prevent the torso from twisting or sagging during the exercise. While most people find they cannot lift as heavy as other row variations, this exercise is great for improving shoulder stability, mind muscle connection, coordination, and balance.
If you're new to rows or planks, we'd recommend mastering the
dumbbell row
and full plank separately before attempting renegade rows. You can also practice this exercise without weights to learn the form before using weights.
Check out some other row variations:
barbell bent over row
,
dumbbell bent over row
,
single arm dumbbell row
,
incline row
,
seated cable row
,
Commonly Asked Questions On Renegade Rows
What Are Renegade Rows Good For?
Renegade rows are an excellent functional exercise that simultaneously strengthens the upper back and core while improving balance, coordination, and stability.
Why Is Renegade Row So Hard?
Renegade rows may feel harder than other row variations as they require a strong core, balance, and coordination between the upper and lower body. If you have a weak core or limited experience with exercises where multiple muscle groups are used at once, it can feel challenging to remain stable while rowing the weights.
What Weight Should A Beginner Renegade Row?
If you’re new to renegade rows, we’d recommend first mastering the bent over row and plank. You can then perform renegade rows without any weight as this will allow you to learn the technique and build the core strength and stability needed for this exercise. Once you’re able to perform renegade rows without the hips sagging or twisting, you can move on to light weights and build this up.
Renegade Row Tips
Preventing the torso from twisting or sagging is key to minimising injury risk and working the core effectively. Pulling thae belly button in towards the spine and squeezing the glutes, along with pushing through the non-rowing hand, will help to keep the core engaged and keep the torso stable.
If you still struggle to maintain the torso position, deadbugs are a good core exercise that will help to build both the core strength and the coordination between the upper and lower body that is needed for renegade rows.
How To Do A Renegade Row
From kneeling, place two dumbbells or kettlebells shoulder width apart on the floor in front of you.
Gripping the weight with palms facing each other, adopt a high plank position so that your wrists, elbows, and shoulders are stacked, and your head, hips, and heels are in a line.
Engage your core and press down through your left arm while rowing the right dumbbell to your ribs, stopping when your upper arm is parallel with the ceiling.
Lower the dumbbell back beneath your shoulder and repeat on the other side.
Back to top
Back to all rows
Back to all exercises
If you’re not sure if any of the above exercises are suitable for you, please consult your doctor before you start it. Need guidance on how to perform the exercise? Ask a personal trainer at your gym.