Title: TRX Rows
URL: https://www.puregym.com/exercises/back/rows/trx-row/

TRX Rows
What Is A TRX Row?
Jump straight to instructions
Standing for total body resistance exercise, the TRX is a suspension trainer that can be used to work the entire body. The
TRX row
uses the TRX to target the back, working the latissimus dorsi, rhomboids, traps, deltoids, and core. For this exercise, the TRX is usually attached to a rig or the pull up bars on a cable machine.
The TRX row is suitable for all abilities as the difficulty can be adapted by changing where the torso is positioned. The more upright the torso, the easier the row, and the closer the torso is to parallel with the floor, the more difficult it is.
Check out some other row variations:
pendlay row
,
T-bar row
,
renegade row
,
barbell bent over row
,
dumbbell bent over row
Commonly Asked Questions On TRX Row
What Muscles Does The TRX Row Work?
TRX rows target the muscles of the back, namely the latissimus dorsi, rhomboids, trapezius, and rear deltoids. The core muscles are also engaged to keep the body stable and balanced throughout the exercise.
Can You Get Ripped Doing TRX Rows?
TRX rows can help to build your back muscles and contribute to greater muscular definition, however they are not enough to make you look ‘ripped’. This would require a consistent, will rounded training programme that involves progressive overload, with all muscle groups trained at least twice a week. You’d likely also need to combine training with a calorie deficit to create a low body fat percentage and make your muscles more visible to reveal the ‘ripped’ look.
Do TRX Rows Work The Chest?
While the chest may have minor involvement during TRX rows, the exercise is primarily a back exercise and will not challenge the muscles of the chest sufficiently. If you're looking to train your chest implement pushing exercises such as
bench press variations
and
chest fly variations
.
TRX Row Tips
The TRX row is a great place to start if you’re new to training your back, as you can alter the difficulty to a suitable level and then progress this as your strength increases. It requires just one piece of kit which can be used at home as well as the gym.
Keeping a neutral spine and engaging your core to maintain a rigid torso is important to protect the spine and allow the intended muscles to power this movement.
How To Do A TRX Row
Set up the TRX so the handles are around chest height, and then take a step back so the TRX is pulled tight.
Extend your arms and lean back to a level you are comfortable with. The greater the lean, the more challenging the row will be. As your body becomes more parallel to the ground you will need to allow yourself to balance on the heels of your feet.
Begin by pulling yourself closer to the handles. It can be helpful to think about pulling your elbows down and back, making sure they stay tucked close to your side.
Slowly lower your torso by extending the arms. Your feet, hips, shoulders, and head should remain in a stable line.
Back to top
Back to all rows
Back to all exercises
If you’re not sure if any of the above exercises are suitable for you, please consult your doctor before you start it. Need guidance on how to perform the exercise? Ask a personal trainer at your gym.