Title: Pull Up Exercises
URL: https://www.puregym.com/exercises/back/pull-up/

Pull Up Exercises
What is a Pull Up?
See all pull up variations
Pull ups are an advanced upper body movement that involve pulling your body up towards an overhead bar. Pull ups are a compound exercise that help to build strength and coordination, and can contribute to muscle hypertrophy.
Pull ups predominantly work the back, with key muscles including the latissimus dorsi, trapezius, and rhomboids, as well as the biceps, forearm and grip, and core.
Learn how to do different pull up variations below.
Check out our other back exercises:
Rows
,
Lat Pulldowns
,
Shrugs
COMMONLY ASKED QUESTIONS ABOUT Pull ups
What Are The Benefits Of Pull Ups?
Pull ups are a functional exercise that helps to build strength in multiple muscle groups, particularly the back and biceps. This exercise also builds coordination as it involves moving multiple muscles and joints at once.
How Many Pull Ups A Day To Do?
It is unnecessary to do pull ups every day – performing pull ups 2-3 times a week is enough to see good results. Aim to do 3-4 sets of as many reps as you can with good form 2-3 times a week as part of an upper body or full body workout.
How To Do Pull Ups Correctly?
To do pull ups correctly, you should start and finish each rep in a dead hang with your arms completely extended, and aim to get your chin equal to or above the bar in the middle portion of the exercise.
Pull Up Tips
Begin in a dead hang with arms and legs completely extended and core engaged to prevent swinging.
Think about driving your elbows down to pull your chest towards the bar.
Keep the descent slow and controlled to increase the time under tension and build more strength.
Pull Up Variations
Assisted pull ups are a great way to build strength to work towards your first pull up.
Assisted Pull Ups
Seated pull ups are performed from a seated position, reducing the amount of weight being moved to help regress the exercise.
Seated Pull Ups
Chin ups use an underhand grip to increase involvement from the biceps will still working the back.
Chin Ups
Pull ups are a challenging bodyweight exercise using an overhand grip to strengthen back, shoulders, and arms while engaging core.
Pull Ups
Back to top
Return to all back exercises
Return to all exercises
If you’re not sure whether a work out is suitable for you, please consult your doctor before you start it. If you're unsure of how to perform any of the above exercises, please ask help from a PT at your gym.