Title: Shrugs
URL: https://www.puregym.com/exercises/back/shrugs/

Shrugs
What is a Shrug?
See all shrug variations
Shrugs, also known as shoulder shrugs, are an upper back exercise that targets the trapezius, rhomboids, and forearm muscles.
The trapezius is a trapezoid shaped muscle that runs from the neck down to the mid back and is split into three areas: the upper trapezius, middle trapezius, and lower trapezius. These muscles are involved in head, neck, and shoulder movement. The trapezius also impact posture, with the middle trapezius in particular involved in bringing the shoulder blades back.
Shrugs help to strengthen the trapezius muscles which can improve neck and shoulder stability and counteract poor posture caused by hunching.
Shrugs are performed by shrugging the shoulders up towards the ears while holding weights to add resistance to this move.
Check out our other back exercises:
Lat pull downs
,
rows
,
pull ups
COMMONLY ASKED QUESTIONS ABOUT Shrugs
What Are The Benefits Of Shrugs?
The benefits of shrugs include an improvement in upper body strength, neck and shoulder stability, and posture, reduced neck and shoulder pain, and an increase in muscle mass. Strengthening the traps with shrugs can also improve performance in other pulling lifts like
lat pull downs
and
rows
.
Are Shrugs A Push Or Pull Exercise?
Shrugs are classed as a pull exercise as the weight is pulled towards the centre of the body, not pushed away. It works well as part of upper body and pull focused workouts.
Which Muscles Do Shrugs Work?
Shoulder shrugs are an upper back exercise and predominantly work the trapezius muscles, as well as the rhomboid muscles. The
forearm and grip muscles
are also worked.
Are Shrugs Worth Doing?
Shrugs are definitely worth doing as they target the trapezius muscles which are often weak from poor posture and prolonged periods of sitting. Strengthening the traps can help with neck and shoulder stability, reducing pain and improving overall upper body strength.
Shrug Tips
Keep your neck relaxed and chin slightly tucked when performing shoulder shrugs
Use a moderate weight that allows you to use your full range of motion in a smooth, controlled movement
Pause at the top of the movement before slowly lowering down to the starting position
Shrug Variations
Barbell shrugs target the trapezius muscles by shrugging the shoulders to lift the barbell. This variation is a great option if your goal is to lift higher loads.
Barbell Shrugs
Dumbbell shrugs build unilateral strength and can help to improve muscular imbalances, as well as improve range of motion.
Barbell Shrugs
Back to top
Return to all back exercises
Return to all exercises
If you’re not sure whether a work out is suitable for you, please consult your doctor before you start it. If you're unsure of how to perform any of the above exercises, please ask help from a PT at your gym.