Title: Seated Chest Press Machine Chest Press
URL: https://www.puregym.com/exercises/chest/bench-press/seated-chest-press/

Seated Chest Press (Machine Chest Press)
What Is A Seated Chest Press?
Jump to instructions
The
seated chest press
is a fixed weight machine that replicates the movement of a bench press in a seated position. Using the seated chest press works the pectorals, deltoids, and triceps, and has less requirement for stabilisation compared to a bench press due to the support from the machine.
The seated chest press is a great place to start if you're new to weight training. Fixed resistance machines use a pre-determined movement path which enables the correct position to be adopted throughout the exercise to ensure the intended muscle groups are being used. This allows the lifter to build strength and become familiar with the movement while minimising injury risks.
Check out some other chest press variations:
landmine chest press
,
barbell bench press
,
barbell incline bench press
,
dumbbell bench press
,
incline dumbbell press
Commonly Asked Questions On Seated Chest Press
Is Seated Chest Press Harder?
The seated chest press machine is likely to feel easier for most due to the enhanced stability provided by the machine, and most people find they can lift more weight with the chest press machine.
What Does The Seated Chest Press Work?
The seated chest press primarily targets the pectorals, with support from the deltoids and triceps.
Is Seated Chest Press As Good As Bench Press?
The seated chest press is likely to target the intended muscle groups more effectively than the
barbell bench press
as the machine set up ensures correct position throughout. However, the bench press demands greater stability and core strength which adds further challenge to the muscles. Incorporating both exercises is an effective way to ensure you are building strength, power, and muscle.
Seated Chest Press Tips
It’s important to set up the machine correctly so that you work the correct muscle groups and minimise injury risks. Adjust the height of the seat so that when seated the handles are in line with the mid chest.
If you’re new to weight training, ensure to select a light and manageable weight as you ease yourself into this style of exercise!
How To Do A Seated Chest Press
Sitting down, adjust the seat so that your mid chest is in line with the handles.Plant your feet flat on the floor and sit with your back flat against the pad.
Grip the handles and then push them forward by extending your arms out, making sure to stop before you lock out the elbows. Keep your back and head flat against the pad the whole time.
Return back to the starting position, making sure to keep your elbows tucked as you slowly bring the handles back towards you, until they are in line or just Infront of your chest. You should feel a stretch across your chest muscles as you do this.
Back To Top
Back to all bench press exercises
Back to all exercises
If you’re not sure if any of the above exercises are suitable for you, please consult your doctor before you start it. Need guidance on how to perform the exercise? Ask a personal trainer at your gym.