Title: Single Arm Chest Press
URL: https://www.puregym.com/exercises/chest/bench-press/single-arm-chest-press/

Single Arm Chest Press
What Is A Single Arm Chest Press?
Jump to instructions
All chest press variations can be performed as a single arm variation as a way to minimise muscular imbalances between the two sides. You can use a dumbbell to perform a single arm chest press on an incline bench, decline bench, flat bench, or the floor. Both the landmine press and the chest press machine can be carried out as a single arm variation too.
The
single arm chest press
primarily targets the chest muscles, however the triceps and deltoids (shoulders) are also activated. It requires greater stability than bilateral versions so the core muscles are also challenges.
Using dumbbells to perform the single arm chest press is likely to be provide greater challenge than the fixed chest press machine. If you're new to single arm training, we recommend becoming familiar with the movement by using the machine variation before progressing to free weights in order to minimise injury.
Below, we've covered the
single arm dumbbell press
,
alternating dumbbell press
, and
single arm machine chest press
.
Check out some other chest press variations:
seated chest press
,
landmine chest press
,
barbell bench press
,
barbell incline bench press
,
dumbbell bench press
Commonly Asked Questions On Single Arm Chest Press
What Muscles Does The Single Arm Chest Press Work?
The single arm chest press works the pecs, deltoids, and triceps, with the dumbbell variation also targeting the core muscles to aid stability.
Is The Single Arm Dumbbell Chest Press Better?
The single arm dumbbell chest press is not necessarily better than the bilateral chest press, but it can be a useful tool as it allows both sides to train equally which can minimise muscular imbalances. Training each side unilaterally helps to build overall strength and can improve bilateral chest press.
Are Single Arm Bench Presses Good?
Single arm bench presses are good for training each side of the body. Building strength on both the left and right side contributes to other lifts and enhances overall muscle growth.
Single Arm Chest Press Tips
The setup of the single arm chest press is important to ensure that the correct muscles are being targeted and to reduce injury risks. Incorrect form can place an increased strain on the deltoids and lead to shoulder pain.
To avoid excess shoulder strain, pin the shoulder blades to the bench creating a slight arch in the back and ensure to tuck the elbows as you press rather than allowing them to flare outwards.
How To Do A Single Arm Dumbbell Chest Press
Gripping one dumbbell, sit on a bench before slowly lying down and extending your arms so that the dumbbell is above you.
Retract your shoulder blades by pulling your shoulder blades into the bench and pressing through your feet. This should create an arch in your lower back, which helps to protect the shoulder joint.
As you lower the dumbbell, keep the elbow tucked to prevent the elbows from flaring.
Lower the dumbbell in line with your mid chest, ensuring to lower the dumbbell it is in line with or just touching the chest.
Push through your arm, chest, and feet as you lift the dumbbell up by extending the arm.
Complete the number of reps before switching arms.
This can also be done on an incline and decline bench, simply adjust the bench to around 30 degree incline or decline.
How To Do Alternating Dumbbell Press
Gripping a dumbbell in each hand, sit on a bench before slowly lying down and extending your arms so that the dumbbells are above you.
Retract your shoulder blades by pulling your shoulder blades into the bench and pressing through your feet. This should create an arch in your lower back, which helps to protect the shoulder joint.
Keeping one arm extended up, lower the other dumbbell in line with your mid chest until it is just above your chest, keeping the elbow tucked to prevent the elbows from flaring.
Push through your arm, chest, and feet as you lift the dumbbell back up by extending the arm.
Repeat on the other side. When you have pressed both dumbbells, you have completed one rep.
Single Arm Machine Chest Press
Sitting down, adjust the seat so that your mid chest is in line with the handles.
Grip one handle and place your feet flat on the floor. Start the exercise by pushing the handle forwards, avoiding locking out the elbow when the arms are extended.Keep your back flat against the pad the whole time.
Keep your elbow tucked as you slowly bring the handle back towards you, until it is in line or just in front of your chest. You should feel a stretch across this side of your chest muscles as you do this.
Continue your set by swapping to the other handle.
Back To Top
Back to all bench press exercises
Back to all exercises
If you’re not sure if any of the above exercises are suitable for you, please consult your doctor before you start it. Need guidance on how to perform the exercise? Ask a personal trainer at your gym.