Title: Incline Dumbbell Fly
URL: https://www.puregym.com/exercises/chest/chest-fly/incline-dumbbell-chest-fly/

Incline Dumbbell Fly
What Is An Incline Dumbbell Fly?
Jump straight to instructions
The
incline dumbbell chest fly
is an upper body movement that challenges the pectorals, deltoids, and triceps and helps to build muscle mass, aid coordination, and improve chest flexibility and scapular retraction to help with posture and upper body pain and tightness. The incline variation engages the upper pec and front delts more than the
flat bench dumbbell fly
.
Unlike most chest exercises which are pressing movements, chest fly variations use adduction to challenge the chest, which means the muscles work to bring the arms into the chest rather than push them away. Adding chest flyes into your upper body workout helps to challenge the muscles in a different way.
The stretched position at the bottom of the movement is the most challenging, requiring pec contraction to push the dumbbells back to the starting position.
Check out some other chest fly variations:
decline dumbbell flyes
,
dumbbell floor flyes
,
single arm flyes
,
machine flyes
,
cable flyes
Commonly Asked Questions On Incline Dumbbell Fly
Are Incline Dumbbell Flys Good?
Incline dumbbell flys are a good exercise to incorporate into your chest training routine as they can help to build strength when the muscle is stretched, improve adduction, and build muscle mass, particularly in the upper pecs.
What Muscles Does The Inclined Dumbbell Fly Work?
The incline dumbbell fly works the pectoralis major, particularly focusing on the clavicular head which is also known as the upper chest. The deltoids and triceps are also engaged to help stabilise the movement.
Is Incline Or Flat Dumbbell Flys Better?
Both the incline and flat dumbbell fly are effective chest exercises, but they do have some differences which can make one more suitable depending on your goal. The incline version works the upper chest more, while the flat fly works the pectorals more evenly. If you find it hard to keep a safe range of motion with the flat fly, the incline fly may be a safer option.
Incline Dumbbell Fly Tips
The incline dumbbell fly will require less load than chest pressing movements, as well as the flat bench fly due to lesser involvement from the lower chest. Choosing a weight that allows you to maintain correct form will help to protect the shoulder joint.
Maintaining correct form also helps protect the shoulders. Keep a soft bend in the elbows and only lower the dumbbells to chest height, no further. It can be helpful to think about hugging a tree when moving the arms in an arc direction.
How To Do An Incline Dumbbell Fly
Set up an incline bench to 15-30 degrees, then lie back so head and back are in contact with the bench. Place your feet flat on the floor.
Hold the dumbbells above your chest with palms facing each other, then press them straight up by extending the arms. Make sure to keep a soft bend in the elbows.
Take a deep breath as you slowly lower the dumbbells in an arc direction, until the arms are almost parallel to the ground and dumbbells are in line with the chest.
Breathe out as you squeeze your chest to push the dumbbells back together.
Back To Top
Back To All Chest Flyes
Back to all exercises
If you’re not sure if any of the above exercises are suitable for you, please consult your doctor before you start it. Need guidance on how to perform the exercise? Ask a personal trainer at your gym.