Title: Push Up From Knees
URL: https://www.puregym.com/exercises/chest/press-up/push-up-from-knees/

Push Up From Knees
What Is A Knee Push Up?
Jump straight to instructions
Knee push ups
, or modified push ups, are an easier version of traditional push ups and are a great regression if push ups are too challenging. Keeping the knees on the floor throughout the movement means there's less body weight for the chest to lift and lower, and less core strength needed to keep the correct alignment.
Just like standard push ups, knee push ups target the chest muscles (pectoralis major), shoulders (deltoids), triceps (triceps brachii), core (rectus abdomonis), hips (obliques) and lower back. Including these in your workouts help to work these muscle and build the strength needed to progress to regular push ups.
Check out our other push up exercises:
incline push ups
,
tricep push ups
,
push ups
,
wide grip push ups
,
decline push ups
Commonly Asked Questions On Knee Push Ups
How Many Knee Push Ups Are Equal To One Push Up?
It’s difficult to know for sure, but a rough estimate would be that a knee push up requires around half the strength of a standard push up, so you’d need to complete two of these modified variations for the equivalent of a traditional press up.
Why Are Knee Push Ups Easier?
By keeping your knees on the floor as you do a push up, you’re supporting a significant amount of weight on your knees rather than your feet and toes. This means you’re not having to lift as much of your body weight as you lift and lower, which also places less pressure on your wrists, elbows and shoulders. Your core also doesn’t need to work as hard to keep you stable, as it doesn’t need to support the whole length of both your upper and lower body.
Do Knee Push Ups Build Muscle?
Yes, modified push ups can definitely help to build muscle. Although they’re considered less challenging than traditional push ups, they still engage and strengthen several key muscle groups, including the chest, shoulders and core.  So, while they’re unlikely to provide the same level of muscle growth as full push ups, they’re an excellent way to improve these muscles and help you progress to the next level.
How Many Knee Push Ups Should I Do?
The number of knee push ups you do depends on your goals and abilities. It’s important to make sure you’re prioritising proper form over the number of repetitions, so make sure you’ve perfected your technique before you increase your reps, and listen to your body as you go. Start with a number of knee push ups that challenges you but still feels manageable - this could be as few as 5 to 10 in a single set. You can then gradually increase the number of reps.
Once you find you’re easily able to complete several sets of knee push ups, you can either increase the number of reps, or can consider progressing to full push ups instead.
Knee Push Up Tips
● Keep a neutral spine throughout the exercise, making sure to avoid arching or rounding your back.
● Keep your head in line with your spine, looking slightly ahead of you.
● Don't let your elbows lock at the top - you'll want to keep a soft bend in them.
● Focus on keeping the movement smooth, slow and controlled, both on the way up and down - it's this muscle tension that will help build strength.
How To Do A Push Up From Knees
Start in a table top position and move your hands forward, keeping them shoulder width apart, until your torso forms a straight line at a 45-degree angle to the floor.
Engage your core by pulling the bottom of your ribs towards your spine and tensing your abs, and lightly squeeze your glutes.
Slowly lower your chest towards the floor by bending your elbows, while keeping them tucked in close to your body. Stop when your chest is just above the ground (or as low as you feel comfortable).
Push through your palms and straighten your arms to return to the starting position.
Back To Top
Back To All Push Ups
Back to all exercises
If you’re not sure if any of the above exercises are suitable for you, please consult your doctor before you start it. Need guidance on how to perform the exercise? Ask a personal trainer at your gym.