Title: Wide Grip Push Ups
URL: https://www.puregym.com/exercises/chest/press-up/wide-grip-push-ups/

Wide Grip Push Ups
What Is A Wide Grip Push Up?
Jump straight to instructions
Wide grip push ups (also known as wide grip press ups) are a variation of the
standard push up exercise
, except with the hands spread further apart than shoulder-width.
The alternative hand placement means this version challenges the chest and shoulder muscles more than the traditional press up. Wide grip press ups also engage the anterior deltoid muscles of the shoulders and the triceps, but the wider hand placement shifts more of the workload to the chest.
These press ups can be more challenging than standard push ups due to the increased distance your chest has to travel to the ground, which requires more strength and flexibility in the chest and shoulders.
If wide grip push ups are too difficult, you can start with a narrower hand placement and gradually work your way to a wider grip as you become stronger. There are also a variety of other press up options you can try as you learn to perfect the move, including incline push ups, which ease the amount of bodyweight you need to lift by elevating your upper body, and modified (knee) push ups, which balance your lower body on your knees for ease.
Once you're ready for more challenging push up options, you can try alternatives like diamond push ups, decline press ups, medicine ball push ups, spiderman push ups, one arm push ups or archer push ups.
Check out our other push up exercises:
decline push ups
,
medicine ball push ups
,
diamond press ups
,
spiderman push ups
,
pike push ups
Commonly Asked Questions On Wide Grip Push Ups
What Are Wide Grip Push Ups Good For?
Wide grip push ups are particularly effective for strengthening and toning the chest muscles, as the wider hand placement puts more emphasis on the chest area. They also engage the anterior deltoid muscles in the shoulders more than standard press ups. Plus, including them as a variation in your workout plans can help prevent workout plateaus and add some diversity to your routine.
Are Wide Grip Push Ups Harder Than Traditional Push Ups?
Wide grip push ups are generally considered harder than traditional push ups. As the wider hand placement increases the distance your chest has to travel to the ground, the move requires more chest strength. Additionally, the shoulder muscles are engaged to a greater extent, which can make the exercise more challenging, especially for those with less upper body strength.
Do Wide Grip Push Ups Work The Chest?
Yes, wide grip push ups are highly effective at targeting and working the chest muscles (pectoral muscles). The wide hand placement in wide grip push ups places a greater emphasis on the chest compared to standard or close grip push ups.
When you perform wide grip push ups, the pectoral muscles are stretched more during the descent, and they need to work harder to lift your body back up to the starting position. This increased range of motion and the positioning of your hands makes this press up variation an excellent exercise for chest development and strengthening.
Are Wide Grip Push Ups Bad For Shoulders?
If performed with proper form and within your strength and flexibility limits, wide grip push ups should not be harmful to your shoulders. However, it's important to ensure that your shoulder joints are healthy and that you use good technique to prevent excessive stress on the shoulder joints. If you have any shoulder issues or concerns, it's a good idea to consult with a fitness professional or healthcare provider for guidance on exercise alternatives.
Wide Grip Push Up Tips
● For best muscular efficiency, focus on inhaling as you lower your body towards the ground and exhaling as you push back upwards.
● Don't let your body just drop to the ground - instead keep tension and full control in your muscles as you lower your chest.
● Keep your core engaged and your glutes tight throughout the whole movement - this will keep your body stable and help to work these muscles too.
How To Do Wide Grip Push Ups
Start in a plank position with your hands positioned wider than shoulder-width apart. Your fingers should point forward or slightly outward.
Keep your body in a straight line from head to heels, engaging your core and glutes to maintain stability.
Lower your chest toward the ground while keeping your elbows pointing out to the sides. Drop down until your chest is close to the ground or touches it.
Push your body back up to the starting position by straightening your arms.
Repeat for the desired number of reps.
Back To Top
Back To All Push Ups
Back to all exercises
If you’re not sure if any of the above exercises are suitable for you, please consult your doctor before you start it. Need guidance on how to perform the exercise? Ask a personal trainer at your gym.