Title: Diamond Press Ups
URL: https://www.puregym.com/exercises/chest/press-up/diamond-press-ups/

Diamond Press Ups
What Is A Diamond Press Up?
Jump straight to instructions
Diamond press ups
, also known as
diamond push ups
or
triangle push ups
, are a bodyweight exercise that targets the muscles of the upper body. Unlike traditional push ups where you typically keep your hands in a plank position below each shoulder, the diamond press up variation involves forming a diamond shape with the thumbs and index fingers.
This angling of the hands and arms places more emphasis on the triceps than a standard press up, while also working the chest, shoulders, and core. The hand positioning also provides a smaller base to push from, providing more challenge on the stabilising muscles.
Diamond push ups are usually considered to be more challenging than a standard push up. Beginners can start with modified versions (on your knees) and progress to the full diamond press up when their strength increases.
Diamond press ups work well in upper body strength training routines, calisthenics workouts, or bodyweight exercise circuits.
Check out some other press up variations:
spiderman push ups
,
pike push ups
,
one arm push ups
,
archer push ups
Commonly Asked Questions On Diamond Press Ups
Are Diamond Press Ups Good For Pecs?
Yes, diamond push ups are effective for working the pectoral muscles (pecs). The close hand positioning in the diamond shape targets the inner part of the chest, helping to develop and strengthen the pecs.
Are Diamond Push Ups Better Than Regular?
Whether diamond push ups are "better" than regular push ups depends on your fitness goals and individual preferences. Diamond push ups emphasise the triceps and inner chest more than regular push ups. Standard push ups, on the other hand, work a broader range of muscles in the chest, shoulders, triceps, and core. Both variations can be valuable components of a well-rounded strength training routine.
Diamond Press Up Exercise Tips
Diamond push ups can be challenging, especially for individuals who are new to strength training or those who are not used to the hand positioning. The close grip increases demand on the triceps and places more emphasis on the inner chest, so if these are weaker areas for you then you may find them tough. If you find diamond push ups too difficult initially, you can modify the exercise by performing it on your knees or can gradually work your way up to them by building strength with regular push ups and
tricep dips
first.
Diamond Press Up Tips
As you lower your chest towards the diamond shape formed by your hands, keep your elbows close to your body. This targets the triceps and inner chest more effectively.
Lower your chest as close to the ground as possible without allowing your lower back to sag or your hips to drift up.
Keep your head in a neutral position, aligning it with your spine. Avoid looking up or tucking your chin too close to your chest.
Engage your core to maintain a stable body position throughout the exercise.
How To Do Diamond Press Ups
Start on all fours and form a diamond on the floor with your hands, directly under your chest.
Straighten your arms and extend your legs out behind you to get into a high plank position, keeping the diamond formation with your hands.
From this position, brace your core and squeeze your glutes, and perform a press up by lowering your chest to the floor. Try to keep your back straight and head in line with your spine.
Once you've reached a depth comfortable for you, pause in this position and then press back up to starting position.
Back To Top
Back To All Push Ups
Back to all exercises
If you’re not sure if any of the above exercises are suitable for you, please consult your doctor before you start it. Need guidance on how to perform the exercise? Ask a personal trainer at your gym.