Title: Superman Push Ups
URL: https://www.puregym.com/exercises/chest/press-up/superman-push-ups/

Superman Push Ups
What Is An Superman Push Up?
Jump straight to instructions
Superman push ups are a dynamic and challenging variation of the traditional push up that takes bodyweight training to new heights. Named after the iconic superhero, this explosive exercise not only builds strength, but also adds an element of excitement to your routine.
As you extend your arms and legs off the ground simultaneously, you'll engage various muscle groups, boosting your overall fitness. The benefits of Superman push ups extend beyond aesthetics too, promoting core stability, shoulder strength, and flexibility.
Superman push ups primarily target the muscles in your core, including the rectus abdominis, obliques, and lower back. They also engage the shoulders, chest, and arms, providing a comprehensive upper body workout.
If these are too challenging (they are a seriously demanding variation!), you may find it better to start with regular push ups before gradually increasing the challenge of your push up variations.
Check out some other push up variations:
knee push ups
,
incline push ups
,
tricep push ups
,
push ups
,
wide grip push ups
Commonly Asked Questions On Superman Push Ups
What Muscles Do Superman Push Ups Work?
Superman push ups engage the core muscles, including the rectus abdominis, obliques, and lower back, which means they can help boost stability, improve balance and add towards a more sculpted midsection. The exercise also targets the shoulders, chest, and arms, providing a full-body workout in just one movement.
Are Superman Push Ups Hard?
Yes, Superman push ups can be challenging, especially for beginners. However, with consistent practice and proper form, even beginners can gradually build strength to master this impressive exercise.
The best starting point for perfecting push ups is to begin with incline push ups and assisted knee push ups, before trying regular press ups. From here you can challenge yourself further with tougher alternatives like these superman push ups.
Are Superman Push Ups Bad For Your Back?
When performed with proper form, superman push ups are generally safe for your back. However,  if you have pre-existing back conditions you should speak to a fitness professional or doctor before including this exercise in your routine.
Superman Push Ups Tips
Hold off from attempting this variation until you can comfortably complete around 15 to 20 traditional push ups with perfect form.
It's sensible to keep to lower sets and reps for this demanding movement - aim for around 2 sets of 3 to 5 reps.
Engage your core throughout each push up to protect your lower back.
How To Do Superman Push Ups
Begin in a plank position with your hands shoulder-width apart.
Lower your chest to the floor as you would in a traditional push up.
At the point that, with a traditional push up, you’d usually ease yourself back up to starting point, you should instead explosively push upwards away from the floor and simultaneously lift your arms, chest, and legs off the ground extending away from your body in a Superman-style "flying" stance.
As you drop back to land, you’ll need to return your arms back to below your shoulders so you land in that dropped push up stance.
Repeat for the required number of reps.
Back To Top
Back To All Push Ups
Back to all exercises
If you’re not sure if any of the above exercises are suitable for you, please consult your doctor before you start it. Need guidance on how to perform the exercise? Ask a personal trainer at your gym.