Title: Mountain Climbers
URL: https://www.puregym.com/exercises/full-body/mountain-climbers/

Mountain Climbers
What is a mountain climber?
See mountain climber variations here
Mountain climbers
is an explosive bodyweight exercise which engages multiple muscle groups at once helping to improve your balance, agility, coordination, strength, flexibility and blood circulation.
As a compound exercise that utilises multiple muscle groups in your whole body, mountain climbers are an effective way of strengthening your arms, back, shoulders, core and legs.
Another benefit of using multiple muscles at once is an increased heart rate, which will help you burn more calories. That makes this a great exercise if your goal is to get more definition in your abdominal region.
Mountain climbers can also improve your reflex speed, joint movement and overall stability. The good news is you don't need to trek to your nearest mountain to give this exercise a go!
In fact, you don't need any equipment at all as you can perform mountain climbers anywhere and at any time. To find our more, read on to discover our top tips and a step-by-step guide to performing a mountain climber.
Looking for a full body workout you can do improve your fitness which includes mountain climbers? Check out
anytime, anywhere HIIT workout
.
Check out our other glute exercises:
Burpees
,
Kettlebell swings
Most commonly asked questions about mountain climbers
What muscles mountain climbers work?
Mountain climbers work several different muscles including the shoulders, hamstrings, core, triceps, quads and core. Because of this, it is often considered as a full body exercise.
Do mountain climbers help lose belly fat?
Mountain climbers can help lose body fat provided you are in a calorie deficit which is fundamental for fat loss.
What is the mountain climber exercise good for?
Mountain climbers is a good exercise for targeting your whole body without the use of any equipment, and for building cardio endurance and strength.
Mountain climber tips
Keep your abs tight
when performing mountain climbers
Try to avoid hunching your back by thinking about
keeping a tall spine
Try to
keep light on your toes
This should be a fast movement so try
pick your feet as fast as you can
but if you're new to mountain climbers, take it slowly, and increase your leg speed as you get more confident and experienced at the exercise.
To get the most from mountain climbers be sure to
check that your bottom isn't rising
into the air and that your
hands remain in place
directly beneath your shoulders.
Mountain Climber Variations
How to do Mountain climbers
Level: Beginners
Equipment: no equipment required
Start in a press-up position with your hands shoulder-width apart directly beneath your shoulders.
As quickly as you can, pull your right knee towards your chest without letting it touch the floor then return to the start position.
Repeat step 2 with your left leg.
Continue until you have completed the required amount of reps.
For more bodyweight exercises like this, check out our
blog on different bodyweight exercises
.
Back to top
Back to all full body exercises
Back to all exercises
If you’re not sure if any of the above exercises are suitable for you, please consult your doctor before you start it. Need guidance on how to perform the exercise? Ask a personal trainer at your gym.