Title: Glute Bridge Exercises
URL: https://www.puregym.com/exercises/glutes/glute-bridge/

Glute Bridge Exercises
What is a glute bridge?
See all glute bridge variations
If you want to add some definition and tone to your lower body or glutes in particular,
glutes bridges
are a great exercise to add to your exercise routine. Not only will it target your glutes, you'll also strengthen your hamstrings, lower back and core.
The glute bridge exercise recruits one of the largest muscles in your body - your bum - also known as the gluteus maximus, so whether you're looking to improve your strength or are working in an office desk role where you are sitting down for most of the day, this is a great exercise to try.
If you're keen to start targeting your gluteus maximus (the largest muscle in your bottom) read on to discover how to perform a glute bridge and get the most from each repetition.
Check out our other glute exercises:
Hip thrusts
,
Glute kickbacks
,
Step ups
Commonly asked questions about glute bridges
Do Bridges make your bum bigger?
If formed correctly and over time with progressive overload, glute bridges can help to build your glute muscles and make them stronger. If you want to grow your glutes, you'll benefit from doing multiple
glute exercises
each week, including glute bridges.
What does the glute bridge work?
Glute bridges primarily strengthen the glutes, however the hamstrings and core are also worked in this exercise.
Why do glute bridges hurt my back?
Performing glute bridges should not be hurting your back. If you're feeling tension in your back performing glute bridges, then you may be performing the exercises incorrectly or your body may be compensating for other weaknesses. Common mistakes when perfoming glute bridges is not having the correct foot positioning for your body or overarching the back. If you would like someone to check your form, please speak to a personal trainer.
Glute bridge tips
Listen to your body to ensure you're performing the exercise effectively. When performed correctly,
you should feel the pressure in the glutes and hamstrings
.
When adopting the bridge position, the thrust of
power should come from your hips
rather than your feet.
Keep your core engaged
throughout the exercise to avoid overextending your back, which can lead to lower back pain.
Glute Bridge Variations
Bodyweight glute bridges are great for learning how to activate and strengthen the glutes.
Glute Bridges
Progress your glute bridges with dumbbells. Adding weight increases the challenge for bigger gains.
Dumbbell Glute Bridges
Barbell glute bridges are ideal for when you have progressed to lifting 20kg or more.
Barbell Glute Bridges
Single leg glute bridges are a great way to build stability and improve muscular imbalances.
Single Leg Glute Bridges
Back to top
Back to all glute exercises
Back to all exercises
If you’re not sure if any of the above exercises are suitable for you, please consult your doctor before you start it. Need guidance on how to perform the exercise? Ask a personal trainer at your gym.