Title: Barbell Glute Bridges
URL: https://www.puregym.com/exercises/glutes/glute-bridge/barbell-glute-bridges/

Barbell Glute Bridges
What Is A Barbell Glute Bridge?
Jump Straight To Barbell Glute Bridge Instructions
The
barbell glute bridge
is a variation of the glute bridge that uses a barbell to increase the weight that the glutes are exposed to, helping to build strength, power, and size of the glutes. The hamstrings, erector spinae, quads, and core are also worked in a barbell glute bridge.
Performing barbell glute bridges regularly can help to improve hip and pelvis stability, reducing back and knee pain and improving posture. It can also lead to improvements in squats and deadlifts due to strengthening the hip extension movement.
Barbell glute bridges are similar to
barbell hip thrusts
but are performed with the upper back on the floor rather than an elevated surface. This reduces the range of motion, meaning less muscle fibres are worked, however, it isolates the glutes to a greater extent than hip thrusts. There is also less opportunity to overextend the spine in the glute bridge, making it more suitable for those with back pain or who struggle to maintain a neutral spine in hip thrusts.
Check out our other glute bridge variations:
glute bridges
,
dumbbell glute bridges
,
single leg glute bridges
Commonly Asked Questions On Barbell Glute Bridges
How To Set Up Glute Bridges With Barbell?
To set up a barbell glute bridge, load the barbell to the desired weight using bumper plates. Sit down on the floor with your legs laid flat out in front of you and roll the barbell over your legs until it rests above the hip crease. You can then bend your legs and place your feet flat on the floor ready to perform the glute bridges.
How To Stabilise A Barbell Glute Bridge?
You can use your hands to stabilise the barbell and keep it from slipping when performing barbell glute bridges.
What Does Barbell Glute Bridge Work?
Barbell glute bridges primarily work the glute muscles, however the hamstrings, erector spinae, quads, and core are also worked.
Barbell Glute Bridge Tips
Having the correct foot placement is important for targeting the glutes in barbell glute bridges. As the weight gets heavier, you may find your feet start to slide forward. Start with your feet pulled in close to your glutes and focus on pushing through the heels to drive the hips up. This will activate the glutes and keep your feet stable at the same time. You can also reset your foot position between reps if needed.
How To Do A Barbell Glute Bridge
Load a barbell to the desired weight using bumper plates, then sit in front of the barbell with your legs extended straight out and roll the barbell until it is centred above your hips.
Lie your upper body back and bring your feet flat on the floor around hip width apart, close to your glutes, knees bent and facing the ceiling.
Firmly grip the barbell with a pronated (overhand) grip just outside hip width apart.
Tuck your pelvis in towards the chest to create a neutral spine, squeeze the glutes, and then drive through the heels to push your hips up towards the ceiling until your shoulders, hips, and knees make a straight line. Use your hands to prevent the bar from rolling down your body.
Pause at the top before slowly lowering back to the ground.
Back To Top
Back to all glute bridges
Back to all exercises
If you’re not sure if any of the above exercises are suitable for you, please consult your doctor before you start it. Need guidance on how to perform the exercise? Ask a personal trainer at your gym.