Title: Dumbbell Glute Bridges
URL: https://www.puregym.com/exercises/glutes/glute-bridge/dumbbell-glute-bridges/

Dumbbell Glute Bridges
What Is A Dumbbell Glute Bridge?
Jump Straight To Dumbbell Glute Bridge Instructions
The
dumbbell glute bridge
is a hip extension exercise that isolates and strengthens the glutes, with the hamstrings, quads, erector spinae, and core also worked.
Bodyweight glute bridges
are useful for beginners or when used to warm up and activate the glutes, but their lack of loading means there is a limit to how much strength and muscle mass can be built. Loading the glute bridge with dumbbells allows the glutes to be increasingly exposed to more volume for greater improvements in strength and size. Once you are performing dumbbell glute bridges with more than 20kg, you may prefer to switch to
barbell glute bridges
as it allows more load to be comfortably placed in the hip crease.
Weighted glute bridges can be used as an alternative to hip thrusts, especially if you struggle with lower back pain from hip thrusts because of poor form or a weak core. This is because glute bridges have a smaller range of motion which allows less opportunity for the back to overextend.
Including glute bridges in your workouts regularly can also help to improve pelvis stability, posture, athletic performance, reduce back and knee pain, and reverse muscular imbalances caused by long periods of sitting.
Check out our other glute bridge variations:
glute bridges
,
barbell glute bridges
,
single leg glute bridges
Commonly Asked Questions On Dumbbell Glute Bridges
How To Feel Glute Bridges In Glutes?
When you are doing glute bridges correctly, you should mainly feel it in your glutes and hamstrings, not the quads or lower back. If you struggle to feel this exercise in your glutes, make sure you are keeping the pelvis tucked to avoid the back overarching, and that you are pushing through the heels rather than the balls of your feet. You can also play around with how close your feet are to your glutes to find the placement that activates your glutes.
Will Glute Bridges Build Muscle?
Dumbbell glute bridges can help to build muscle in the glutes. For muscle hypertrophy, choose a dumbbell weight that you can perform around 8-12 glute bridges with good form, while being close to failure by the last rep. Continue to increase the weight or reps each week to progressively overload the glutes.
Can You Do Glute Bridges With Dumbbells?
Dumbbells are a great way to increase the intensity of glute bridges and make them more challenging. Doing glute bridges with dumbbells makes this exercise more effective for building muscle and strength.
Dumbbell Glute Bridge Tips
Getting the form correct is key to making sure the glutes are worked during a dumbbell glute bridge, rather than the quads or lower back. You can do this by keeping your feet hip width apart, pressing through the heels of the feet, and maintaining a neutral spine by tucking the pelvis up towards the chest and pulling the belly button towards the spine.
How To Do A Dumbbell Glute Bridge
Lie flat on your back with, knees bent hip-width apart, and feet flat on the floor.
Place a dumbbell on top of your hip bones and hold the sides of the dumbbell.
Engage the core by pulling the belly button into the spine and squeezing the glutes, then roll your glutes off the floor and push your hips up until your shoulders, hips, and knees make a straight line.
Pause and slowly lower your hips back to starting position, making sure to keep the spine neutral throughout.
Back To Top
Back to all glute bridges
Back to all exercises
If you’re not sure if any of the above exercises are suitable for you, please consult your doctor before you start it. Need guidance on how to perform the exercise? Ask a personal trainer at your gym.