Title: Single Leg Hip Thrusts
URL: https://www.puregym.com/exercises/glutes/hip-thrusts/single-leg-hip-thrust/

Single Leg Hip Thrusts
WHAT IS A SINGLE LEG HIP THRUST?
Jump Straight To Hip Thrust Instructions
Single leg hip thrusts
are a unilateral variation of the
bodyweight hip thrust
that strengthens the glutes by training hip extension. In addition to strengthening the glutes, single leg hip thrusts also work the adductors, quads, hamstrings, and core.
Compared to bilateral hip thrusts, single leg hip thrusts have more core engagement as the core must work hard to keep the torso from tilting to one side. This also helps to improve balance, coordination, and stability, as well as addressing muscular imbalances between the two sides.
Single leg hip thrusts are often done as bodyweight only, but you can add weights or resistance bands to make this more challenging once you have built the strength and stability to perform these with good technique.
Check out our other hip thrust variations:
bodyweight hip thrusts
,
dumbbell hip thrusts
,
barbell hip thrusts
,
resistance band hip thrusts
COMMONLY ASKED QUESTIONS ON SINGLE LEG HIP THRUST
What Are Single Leg Hip Thrusts Good For?
Single leg hip thrusts are good for building strength and stability in the glutes, as well as improving balance, stability, and coordination. Performing single leg hip thrusts will help to address imbalances between the two sides which can improve bilateral hip thrust performance and reduce risk of injury.
Are Single Leg Hip Thrusts Better?
Single leg hip thrusts are not necessarily better or worse than bilateral hip thrusts. Single leg hip thrusts are great for improving stability and coordination and improving imbalances between the two sides, but they are unable to be loaded as heavily as bilateral hip thrusts which means they have less potential for strength and size gains. Including both variations in your training is a good option to get all benefits.
What Is The Difference Between Single Leg Hip Thrust And Bridge?
A single leg hip thrust is performed with the upper back pinned against a box or bench, while single leg glute bridges are performed with the back on the floor. Hip thrusts have a greater range of motion so has potential to build more strength and stability.
Single Leg Hip Thrust Tips
A common mistake people make with single leg hip thrusts is arching the lower back. This shifts tension away from the glutes and onto the lower back, putting the back at risk of injury and making the exercise less effective.
To prevent this from happening, engage the core by pulling the belly button towards the spine, tucking the pelvis under, and squeezing the glutes.
How To Do A Single Leg Hip Thrust
Sit in front of a box or bench with the bottom of your shoulder blades resting on the edge, feet flat on the floor in front of you with knees towards the ceiling.
Lift your left leg up off the floor, either keeping the knee bent so that the hip and thigh is at a 90 degree angle, or extended straight up at a 45 degree angle.
Engage the core and push through the heel of your right foot to lift your hips off the floor and in line with your shoulders and chest.
Pause before slowly lowering back to the floor, maintaining a neutral spine throughout.
Repeat for your desired number of reps before switching sides.
Back To Top
Back to all hip thrusts
Back to all exercises
If you’re not sure if any of the above exercises are suitable for you, please consult your doctor before you start it. Need guidance on how to perform the exercise? Ask a personal trainer at your gym.