Title: Resistance Band Hip Thrusts
URL: https://www.puregym.com/exercises/glutes/hip-thrusts/resistance-band-hip-thrust/

Resistance Band Hip Thrusts
What Is A Resistance Band Hip Thrust?
Jump Straight To Hip Thrust Instructions
The
resistance band hip thrust
is a variation of a weighted hip thrust where a resistance band is used to add resistance, rather than dumbbells or barbells. This exercise works the glutes, as well as the adductors, quads, hamstrings, erector spinae, and core.
Resistance band hip thrusts are a good alternative for those who do not have access to weights, for example if travelling or working out at home. It can also be a useful progression from bodyweight hip thrusts and can be used as a warmup exercise to activate the glutes, or as a rehabilitation exercise.
One benefit of resistance band hip thrusts that other variations don't have is tension. Resistance bands create constant tension on the glutes, whereas weighted variations get easier on the eccentric portion due to the pull of gravity.
Check out our other hip thrust variations:
bodyweight hip thrusts
,
dumbbell hip thrusts
,
barbell hip thrusts
,
single leg hip thrusts
Commonly Asked Questions On Resistance Band Hip Thrust
Is Hip Thrust With Bands Better Than Barbell?
Barbell hip thrusts are better than resistance band hip thrusts as there is a greater ability to add weight, which is key for building glute strength and size. However, resistance band hip thrusts do have many uses and for beginners, it can be a better alternative as it allows the movement pattern to be learnt with minimal risk of injury.
Are Resistance Bands For Glutes Worth It?
Resistance bands can be a useful tool for building strength and endurance in the glutes and are particularly helpful for activating the glutes and teaching the hip thrust movement pattern. They also allow exercises to be performed without access to gym equipment, ideal for home workouts or travel.
Can You Build Glute Muscle With Resistance Bands?
Resistance bands can help to build glute muscle, especially for beginners or those new to glute exercises. As you get stronger, you’ll likely need to switch to other variations like dumbbell hip thrusts and barbell hip thrusts to allow more weight to be added and continue to challenge the glute muscles.
Resistance Band Hip Thrust Hip Thrust Tips
A common mistake people make with resistance band hip thrusts is looping the band around the knees. While this can be helpful for learning how to engage the abductors and preventing the knees from caving in, it doesn’t add resistance to the hip thrust movement. Instead, resistance bands should be looped under the feet or to an anchor, and around the hips, so that they apply resistance to the hips thrusting.
How To Do A Resistance Band Hip Thrust
Sit with your upper back against a box or bench, shoulder blades resting on the edge. Place your feet flat on the floor, knees bent facing the ceiling.
Loop one end of the resistance band around each foot and pull the middle of the band so that it rests on top of the hip crease. You can also hold the ends of the resistance band with your hands if it’s not long enough to loop round your feet.
Engage the core by pulling in the belly button towards the spine and squeezing the glutes.
Push through the heels to drive the hips upwards until your body is in a straight line from knees to shoulders.
Pause before slowly lowering back to the starting position.
Back to top
Back to all hip thrusts
Back to all exercises
If you’re not sure if any of the above exercises are suitable for you, please consult your doctor before you start it. Need guidance on how to perform the exercise? Ask a personal trainer at your gym.