Title: Bodyweight Hip Thrusts
URL: https://www.puregym.com/exercises/glutes/hip-thrusts/bodyweight-hip-thrust/

Bodyweight Hip Thrusts
What Is A Bodyweight Hip Thrust?
Jump Straight To Hip Thrust Instructions
The
bodyweight hip thrust
is a hip extension exercise that primarily strengthens the glutes, with the hamstrings, quads, core and lower back also worked. This exercise follows a similar movement pattern to the glute bridge, but with the upper back positioned against a bench or box, increasing the range of motion.
The glutes are one of the largest muscles in the body, and strengthening the glutes has multiple benefits including improved posture, stronger running, jumping, and athletic performance, and reduced risk of injury.
Hip thrusts are one of the best exercises when it comes to targeting the glutes. While hip thrusts can be loaded with dumbbells or barbells to increase the challenge, if you're new to hip thrusts the bodyweight variation is ideal for learning the movement and ensuring the correct muscles are targeted.
You can also perform
single leg bodyweight hip thrusts
to increase the difficulty and further challenge stability and coordination.
Check out our other hip thrust variations:
dumbbell hip thrusts
,
barbell hip thrusts
,
single leg hip thrusts
,
resistance band hip thrusts
Commonly Asked Questions On Bodyweight Hip Thrusts
Are Bodyweight Hip Thrusts Effective?
Bodyweight hip thrusts are effective at targeting and strengthening the glutes. As with all bodyweight exercises, once you can do 15+ reps with correct form, you’ll benefit from adding weight to make this exercise more challenging.
Where Do Hip Thrusts Work?
Hip thrusts mainly strengthen the glutes, but the quads, hamstrings, erector spinae, and core are also worked.
Do Hip Thrusts Make You Faster
Including hip thrusts in your training can translate to faster running and jumping speeds. The hip thrust is an explosive exercise, which builds strength and power in the glutes. The glutes help to drive running and jumping movements, so more powerful and explosive glutes can mean more speed.
Bodyweight Hip Thrust Tips
Maintaining good form in a hip thrust is important to protect the lower back and ensure the glutes are doing most of the work. Engage the core and tuck the pelvis under by pulling your belly button towards your spine to keep your spine neutral and prevent tension from moving to the lower back.
Choose a platform or box that is the correct height and allows you to rest the bottom of your shoulder blades on the edge of the surface and place your feet at a distance that allows your knees to be at a 90 degree angle at the top of the hip thrust.
How To Do A Bodyweight Hip Thrust
Sit with your upper back against a bench or box, so the bottom of your shoulder blades rest against the edge. You can rest your hands on your hips or crossed in front of your chest.
Place your feet flat on the floor, hip width apart. Your feet should be positioned so that your shins are vertical when you thrust your hips up.
Engage your core, tuck your pelvis under, and squeeze your glutes, then drive through your heels to push your hips up until your body makes a straight line from shoulders to knees.
Pause before slowly lowering back to the starting position.
Back to top
Back to all hip thrusts
Back to all exercises
If you’re not sure if any of the above exercises are suitable for you, please consult your doctor before you start it. Need guidance on how to perform the exercise? Ask a personal trainer at your gym.