Title: Dumbbell Hip Thrusts
URL: https://www.puregym.com/exercises/glutes/hip-thrusts/dumbbell-hip-thrust/

Dumbbell Hip Thrusts
What Is A Dumbbell Hip Thrust?
Jump Straight To Hip Thrust Instructions
Dumbbell hip thrusts
are a lower body exercise where the upper body is stabilised against a platform while the hips and torso are thrust up, with dumbbells held on the hips to increase the load. Dumbbell hip thrusts primarily strengthen the glutes, with the quads, hamstrings, adductors, lower back, and core also worked.
Strengthening the glutes helps to stabilise the pelvis and knees, improving posture, reducing chance of injury and pain, and increasing athletic performance. Hip thrusts are also great for building the size of the glutes as they can be exposed to a lot of load and volume.
Dumbbell hip thrusts are a great progression from the bodyweight hip thrust, as you can add on as a little as 1kg. This allows the weight to be gradually increased to build strength, power, and endurance in the glutes. As you begin to hip thrust 15-20kg, you may want to progress to
barbell hip thrusts
.
Check out our other hip thrust variations:
bodyweight hip thrusts
,
barbell hip thrusts
,
single leg hip thrusts
,
resistance band hip thrusts
Commonly Asked Questions On Dumbbell Hip Thrusts
Are Dumbbell Hip Thrusts Effective?
Dumbbell hip thrusts are an effective exercise for strengthening the lower body and posterior chain, particularly the glutes. Adding dumbbells is a great way to increase the weight lifted, and can be a good progression from bodyweight hip thrusts.
What Muscles Do Dumbbell Hip Thrusts Work?
Dumbbell hip thrusts work the glutes, as well as the adductors, quads, hamstrings, erector spinae, and core.
How To Do A Hip Thrust With 2 Dumbbells?
To do a hip thrust with two dumbbells, you’ll need to place each dumbbell just below the crease of your hip, so that one dumbbells rests on each leg. You’ll need to hold both dumbbells during the hip thrust.
Are Dumbbell Hip Thrusts As Good As Barbell?
Dumbbell hip thrusts and barbell hip thrusts are both great options for strengthening the glutes. Barbell hip thrusts are easier to load heavier, and can be easier to get the placement correct. However, dumbbells are a great alternative and particularly useful for beginners.
Dumbbell Hip Thrust Tips
Maintaining a neutral spine is key to making sure the glutes work during dumbbell hip thrusts. When the back is arched, tension shifts from the glutes to the lower back. This makes the exercise less effective and exposes the back to risk of injury. To prevent this from happening, engage the core by pulling the belly button in towards the spine so that the pelvis tucks under, and squeeze the glutes.
How To Do A Dumbbell Hip Thrust
Sit with your upper back against a box or bench, feet flat on the floor in front of you. The bottom of your shoulder blades should rest against the edge.
Place a dumbbell or two dumbbells on your hips just below the pelvis. Make sure to hold on to them throughout the exercise.
Engage the core and squeeze the glutes to flatten the lower back, then push through your heels to drive your hips up, stopping when your body is in a straight line from shoulders to knees, and shins are vertical.
Pause and squeeze the glutes before slowly lowering back to the start, keeping the spine neutral throughout.
Back To Top
Back to all hip thrusts
Back to all exercises
If you’re not sure if any of the above exercises are suitable for you, please consult your doctor before you start it. Need guidance on how to perform the exercise? Ask a personal trainer at your gym.