Title: Leg Press Calf Raises
URL: https://www.puregym.com/exercises/legs/calf-exercises/leg-press-calf-raises/

Leg Press Calf Raises
What Is A Leg Press Calf Raise?
Jump Straight To Instructions
Leg press calf raises
are a versatile way to add external load to a calf raise whilst keeping the upper body still to isolate the calves. Leg press calf raises can be done in any pin-loaded or plate-loaded leg press machine, including a
seated leg press
and
45 degree leg press machine
.
Leg press calf raises work the gastrocnemius and the soleus muscles and strengthen the ankles and feet which is important for reducing injury risk. Strong calves and ankles are important for a long list of exercises and sports, including running, jumping,
plyometrics
, squats, lunges, and Olympic weightlifting.
Sitting in a leg press to do calf raises holds the body and upper legs in place and completely isolates the calves so you can focus on the ankle flexion movement. Using a leg press gives you the option of changing your foot placement, working with tempo, or doing partial reps to add variety to your calf training.
Using a leg press machine also allows you to easily change the weight, making the leg press
calf exercise
is suitable for beginners, intermediate, and advanced training.
Start doing leg press calf raises with a light weight that you can control for reps. Once you are confident with the technique at a lighter weight, you can add more load.
Check out some other calf raise variations:
Calf raises,
Seated calf raises
,
Leg press calf raises
Commonly Asked Questions About Leg Press Calf Raises
How To Do Calf Press On Leg Press Machine?
Leg press calf raises can be done on a seated leg press or 45 degree leg press machine. Place the balls of both feet on the bottom edge of the foot plate and keep a slight bend in your knees. Press the toes away from your body and flex at the ankles, then bring the toes back towards you.
Are Calf Raises On Leg Press Good?
Doing calf raises on a leg press is a good way to isolate the calves by keeping the body and upper legs still. Leg press calf raises also allow you to add external weight easily during the exercise.
How To Do Calf Raises On Seated Leg Press?
Do calf raises on a seated leg press by adjusting the seat so you have a slight bend in your legs when the foot plate is at rest. Place the balls of both feet on the bottom edge of the plate and press through your toes to lift your heels.
Leg Press Calf Raise Tips
Leg press calf raises can be done on a seated leg press or a 45 degree leg press machine.
Keep a slight bend in your knees throughout the movement (don't lock your knees out).
Press through your toes and lift your heels to perform the calf raise.
Remember this is just a small isolated movement through the ankles and feet.
How To Do Leg Press Calf Raises
Sit in the leg press machine with your back firmly against the back support.
Put the balls of your feet on the bottom edge of the foot plate, around shoulder-width apart.
For a seated leg press machine, adjust the seat so your knees are slightly bent when the plate is at rest.
For a 45 degree leg press machine, press the plate off the safety bars and extend your legs out, keeping a slight bend in your knees.
Select a light weight that you can perform for reps.
Slowly lift your heels by contracting your calf muscles and pushing through your toes to push the plate away.
Pause at the top before slowly reversing the movement.
Lower your heels below the plate to gently stretch your calves before repeating.
Keep your arms relaxed throughout the movement.
Back to top
Back To All Calf Exercises
Back to all exercises
If you’re not sure if any of the above exercises are suitable for you, please consult your doctor before you start it. Need guidance on how to perform the exercise? Ask a personal trainer at your gym.