Title: Barbell good mornings
URL: https://www.puregym.com/exercises/legs/hamstring-exercises/good-mornings/barbell-good-mornings/

Barbell good mornings
What Is A Barbell Good Morning?
Jump straight to instructions
Barbell good mornings
are a compound exercise that strengthens the muscles in the back of your body (the posterior chain), particularly the glutes, hamstrings, and lower back. When focusing on slowing down the eccentric (lengthening) part of each rep, barbell good mornings can also help to stretch in the hamstrings and increase flexibility.
Like deadlifts, barbell good mornings are a hip hinge exercise and performing these regularly can translate to better deadlifts, as well as other lower body exercises like squats. They work well in lower body workouts and can be used as part of a warm up, or as a pre exhaust exercise before other
hamstring movements,
or as part of your main workout. They can also work in
back workouts
or pull sessions.
Barbell good mornings are one of the simplest ways to do a good morning - all you need is a barbell placed across your upper back. They can also be easily progressed as you get stronger by adding plates to the bar. However, if you're new to hip hinge exercises we'd recommend learning the correct set up and technique without the bar first, then slowly adding weight.
Check out some of our other good morning variations:
Dumbbell good mornings
,
seated good mornings
Commonly Asked Questions About Barbell Good Mornings
What Is A Barbell Good Morning?
A barbell good morning is a compound exercise that works the posterior chain. It is a hip hinge exercise performed with a barbell or fixed bar across your upper back, with benefits including increased lower body strength and flexibility.
What Do Barbell Good Mornings Work?
Barbell good mornings work the posterior chain, primarily the hamstrings, glutes, and erector spinae (lower back). The core is also engaged in this exercise.
How To Do Good Mornings Without Barbell?
There are a few ways to perform good mornings without a barbell, including as a bodyweight exercise, with
dumbbells
, and
seated
.
Barbell Good Morning Tips
The bar should be positioned across the upper back just below the base of the neck, similar to the bar placement on a barbell squat.
Keep a slight bend in your knees throughout the exercise to protect your lower back.
Form is more important than depth. Keep a neutral spine and stop when you feel a stretch in the hamstrings, rather than aiming to get your torso to a certain position.
Don't push your hips too far forward at the top of the rep -- focus on squeezing your glutes.
How To Do Barbell Good Mornings
Set up your barbell to just below shoulder height in a squat rack and step under the bar to position it just below your shoulders.
Alternatively, use a fixed barbell and shoulder press it above your head and onto your upper back.
Stand up tall with the barbell on your back, feet hip width apart.
Brace your core and begin to hinge forward at the hips, pushing your glutes backwards.
Keep a slight bend in your knees – don’t lock your legs out.
Lower your torso until it is parallel to the ground or until you feel a stretch in your hamstrings.
Pause before returning to the start position by squeezing your glutes and bringing your hips forward.
Back to top
Back To All Good Mornings
Back to all exercises
If you’re not sure if any of the above exercises are suitable for you, please consult your doctor before you start it. Need guidance on how to perform the exercise? Ask a personal trainer at your gym.