Title: Dumbbell good mornings
URL: https://www.puregym.com/exercises/legs/hamstring-exercises/good-mornings/dumbbell-good-mornings/

Dumbbell good mornings
What Is A Dumbbell Good Morning?
Jump straight to instructions
Dumbbell good mornings
are a compound exercise that strengthens the hamstrings, glutes, and lower back, and can also improve hamstring flexibility.
The dumbbell good mornings is a good choice for those new to good mornings or hip hinge exercises, as you can start with a much lighter weight than the barbell good morning variation. Some people also find it easier to feel the stretch in the hamstrings in this version.
Dumbbell good mornings can be performed as part of a full body workout, in a lower body session, or as part of a pull workout with other
hamstring exercises
. If you use light dumbbells, this exercise works well as a warm up or hamstring pre exhaust exercise. If you choose heavier dumbbells, dumbbell good mornings can be one of your main hamstring exercises.
Dumbbell good mornings are simple to do, but take time to get the technique right so you can get the most out of every rep.
Check out some of our other good morning variations:
Barbell good mornings
,
seated good mornings
Commonly Asked Questions About Dumbbell Good Mornings
What Are Dumbbell Good Mornings?
Dumbbell good mornings are a hip hinge exercise that strengthens and stretches several muscles of the posterior chain.
What Muscles Do Good Mornings Work?
All good morning variations work the hamstrings, glutes, and lower back, and can build strength and flexibility. The core muscles are also engaged when performing good mornings correctly.
How Effective Are Good Mornings?
Good mornings are an effective exercise for building strength in the hamstrings, glutes, and lower back, as well as improving hamstring flexibility. Performing good mornings can help to improve other hip hinge exercises like deadlifts and squats.
Dumbbell Good Morning Tips
Position the dumbbells over your shoulders with one head of the dumbbell behind and one in front of each shoulder and lightly hold -- there's no need to grip them tight.
Focus on pushing your glutes backwards as you hinge at the hips to bring your chest towards the ground, stopping when you feel a stretch in the hamstrings.
Don't push your hips too far forward at the top of the rep -- focus on squeezing your glutes.
How To Do Dumbbell Good Mornings
Choose two dumbbells of the same weight and place one dumbbell over each shoulder, with one head of the dumbbell behind your shoulder and the other head in front of your shoulder.
Stand with your feet hip-width apart, knees slightly bent, holding the dumbbells in place.
Keeping your knees soft, push your glutes back and hinge at the hips, to lower your upper body until it is almost parallel with the floor, or until you feel a stretch in your hamstrings.
Pause at the bottom of the movement before returning to the starting position by pushing your hips forward and standing up straight.
Keep your core engaged and your back straight throughout the exercise.
Back to top
Back To All Good Mornings
Back to all exercises
If you’re not sure if any of the above exercises are suitable for you, please consult your doctor before you start it. Need guidance on how to perform the exercise? Ask a personal trainer at your gym.