Title: Seated good mornings
URL: https://www.puregym.com/exercises/legs/hamstring-exercises/good-mornings/seated-good-mornings/

Seated good mornings
What Is A Seated Good Morning?
Jump straight to instructions
Seated good mornings
are a compound exercise that strengthens the muscles of the lower back, hamstrings, and glutes. Seated good mornings are performed sitting on a bench which means the lower back and core do more work than the hamstrings and glutes. This exercise is a good hip hinge movement if you want to take some of the work out of your hamstrings and focus more on the lower back.
Seated good mornings build strength and stability in the erector spinae, lower back, hips, and core. This good morning variation is a useful accessory exercise for
back workouts
, and can be done as part of a full body workout. Seated good mornings are a good option if you are new to hip hinge exercises, because they can feel more stable than standing
barbell good mornings
.
Seated good mornings are simple to do but take time learning the proper technique before you slowly add weight to the bar.
Check out some of our other good morning variations:
Barbell good mornings
,
dumbbell good mornings
Commonly Asked Questions About Seated Good Mornings
What Muscles Do Seated Good Mornings Work?
Seated good mornings are a compound hip hinge exercise that work the muscles of the lower back, core, and hip flexors. The glutes and hamstrings are also engaged in this exercise.
Are Seated Good Mornings Good?
Seated good mornings are a good way to build strength and flexibility in the lower back, core, and hip flexors and can feel more stable than standing good morning variations.
Are Seated Good Mornings Safe?
Seated good mornings are a safe variation of good morning because they are performed sitting down, which means you can focus on form and technique. We’d advise perfecting the movement with an empty barbell before adding weights.
Seated Good Morning Tips
Set up a barbell in the squat rack and put flat bench at a 90 degree angle to the bar.
When you are sitting on the bench, the bar should be behind you across your upper back.
As you perform each rep, engage your core, and keep your chest high so there is a slight arch in your back.
Focus on engaging the muscles and feeling a stretch in your lower back before you add more weight to the bar.
How To Do Seated Good Mornings
Set up a barbell in the squat rack and place a flat bench below the barbell at a 90 degree angle, like for a bench press.
Make sure your barbell is the correct height by sitting on the bench, the barbell should be across your upper back.
Sit on the bench with one leg either side of the seat, feel flat on the floor. Your feet should be slightly further away from your body than your knees.
Unrack the barbell from the squat rack onto your back and take hold of it with both hands outside your shoulders.
Hinge forward at the hips, keeping your chest up and engaging your core.
Lean your torso forward, pause at the bottom of the rep, and slowly reverse the movement until you are sitting upright again.
Back to top
Back To All Good Mornings
Back to all exercises
If you’re not sure if any of the above exercises are suitable for you, please consult your doctor before you start it. Need guidance on how to perform the exercise? Ask a personal trainer at your gym.