Title: Hamstring Curls
URL: https://www.puregym.com/exercises/legs/hamstring-exercises/hamstring-curls/

Hamstring Curls
What are hamstring curls?
See all hamstring curl variations
Hamstring curls
are isolation exercises which exclusively target the hamstrings. Isolation exercises often get a bad rep, but they can be really beneficial in addressing muscle imbalances. In this case, the hamstrings are typically weaker than the quadriceps, which means they don't always get pushed to full potential in compound movements as the quads take over. Combining compound movements with hamstring isolation exercises is the best way to increase the strength and size of your hamstrings.
Commonly asked questions on hamstring curls
Are leg curls bad for your knees?
Leg curls are not inherently bad for your knees as long as they are performed safely. Sticking to a weight that allows you to keep control of the form will help you to avoid injuries.
What is a good weight for leg curls?
There is no universal correct weight for leg curls. Even between variations, the weight you use might change! Aim for a weight that you can carry out curls with correct form for between 8-12 reps if your goal is hypertrophy, and 3-6 reps if your goal is strength. If you can perform over the top range of your reps easily, increase the weight.
Do hamstring curls work your glutes?
Some leg curl variations do recruit the glutes, but only to a small degree. If working your glutes is a priority, check out our
glute exercise page here
.
Hamstring Curl Tips
Use a weight that allows for
smooth, controlled movement
throughout.
Keep your hips, core, and upper body
completely still
to ensure the hamstring is working.
Hold the curl
for a second before going back to starting position.
Hamstring curl variations
Lying leg curls are a machine exercise that isolates the hamstrings and allows you to easily add or remove weight during your sets.
Lying Leg Curls
Seated leg curls isolate the hamstrings and give you easy access to the weight stack to modify your sets.
Seated Leg Curls
Swiss ball curls work the hamstrings, glutes, and lower back and build core strength and stability.
Swiss Ball Hamstring Curls
Dumbbell hamstring curls isolate the hamstrings and can be done anywhere with just a dumbbell.
Dumbbell Hamstring Curls
Nordic curls are a challenging bodyweight hamstring curl that strengthens and stretches the muscle for better hamstring health.
Nordic Curls
Resistance band hamstring curls are great for warm-ups, pre exhaust, or accessory work on leg day.
Banded Hamstring Curls
Back to top
Back to all hamstring exercises
Back to all exercises
If you’re not sure if any of the above exercises are suitable for you, please consult your doctor before you start it. Need guidance on how to perform the exercise? Ask a personal trainer at your gym.