Title: Swiss Ball Hamstring Curls
URL: https://www.puregym.com/exercises/legs/hamstring-exercises/hamstring-curls/swiss-ball-hamstring-curls/

Swiss Ball Hamstring Curls
What Is A Swiss Ball Hamstring Curl?
Jump straight to instructions
Swiss ball hamstring curls
are a bodyweight
hamstring exercise
combines a leg curl with a bodyweight bridge to build strength in the hamstrings, glutes, and lower back muscles.
Swiss ball hamstring curls don't use any external weight like
machine leg curls
or
barbell hamstring exercises
. Instead, they use a Swiss ball to add resistance as you pull your feet in towards your glutes. The instability of the ball challenges the smaller stabilising muscles in the legs and core and helps to improve overall balance, coordination, and stability.
Swiss ball hamstring curls are good exercise choice for lighter
leg workouts
, as a warm up, or for rehabilitation.
Check out some other hamstring curl variations:
Lying leg curls
,
Nordic curls
,
seated leg curl
,
banded hamstring curl
,
dumbbell hamstring curl
Commonly Asked Questions About Swiss Ball Hamstring Curls
How To Do Hamstring Curls On A Swiss Ball?
You can do hamstring curls on a Swiss ball by lying on your back with your heels and lower calves on a Swiss ball, raising your hips into a glute bridge position, and pulling your heels towards your body. A more advanced version can be done with your feet flat on the Swiss ball.
How To Do Swiss Ball Hamstring Curls?
Lie on your back with your heels and lower calves on the Swiss ball. Press into your hands and lift your hips into a glute bridge. Pull your heels in towards your glutes and slowly return your legs to the start position.
What Is A Swiss Ball Hamstring Curl?
A Swiss ball hamstring curl is a hamstring exercise performed on the floor with your feet on a Swiss ball. It is a bodyweight hamstring movement that works the hamstrings, glutes, and core.
Swiss Ball Hamstring Curl Tips
Practice getting into a good glute bridge position without the Swiss ball before you start this exercise, with a straight line from your knees to your shoulders.
During the Swiss ball hamstring curl, create a stable base by pressing your shoulders and palms into the floor before you start to perform the curl.
Keep your head on the floor and your neck neutral throughout the movement.
Squeeze your hamstrings, glutes, and core as you perform each rep.
For a more advanced Swiss ball hamstring curl variation, start with your feet flat on the Swiss ball.
How To Do Swiss Ball Hamstring Curls
Lie on the floor with your back, shoulders, and head flat on the floor.
Put your heels and lower calves on top of the Swiss ball.
Extend your arms out in line with your shoulders and press your palms into the floor for stability.
Push into your feet and hands to raise your hips into a glute bridge position, with your body in a straight line from knees to shoulders.
Squeeze your hamstrings to pull your heels in towards your body. Focus on keeping your core tight and shoulders stable.
When you can’t bring your heels in any closer to your body, pause, and slowly reverse back to the starting position.
Back to top
Hamstring Curls
Back to all exercises
If you’re not sure if any of the above exercises are suitable for you, please consult your doctor before you start it. Need guidance on how to perform the exercise? Ask a personal trainer at your gym.