Title: Banded Hamstring Curls
URL: https://www.puregym.com/exercises/legs/hamstring-exercises/hamstring-curls/banded-hamstring-curl/

Banded Hamstring Curls
What Is A Banded Hamstring Curl?
Jump straight to instructions
Banded hamstring curls
are an isolation
hamstring exercise
that strengthens and stretches the hamstrings. This leg curl variation uses a resistance band rather than free weights or a gym machine to provide resistance, which means you can do banded hamstring curls at home or at the gym.
Banded leg curls typically provide less resistance than a leg curl machine, however the resistance can be increased by using heavier resistance bands or switching to single leg banded curls. While banded curls will have a limit on how much muscle and strength they can build, the resistance bands create more instability than machines and can help to build resilient hamstrings.
This exercise works well as part of a warmup, as a hamstring finisher, or as a hamstring pre-exhaust. It is also ideal for isolating the hamstrings in home workouts or when you have limited access to gym equipment.
Check out some other hamstring curl variations:
Lying leg curls
,
Swiss ball hamstring curls
,
Nordic curls
,
seated leg curls
,
dumbbell hamstring curls
Commonly Asked Questions About Banded Hamstring Curls
Are Banded Hamstring Curls Good?
Banded hamstring curls are a good option when you don’t have access to gym equipment, or if you have an injury that requires rehabilitation. While it’s unlikely to build as much strength or muscle mass as weighted curls, they are still an effective way to build hamstring strength and stability and work well in lower body workouts as a warm up, pre-exhaust, or finisher.
How To Do Hamstring Curls With Bands?
Select an appropriate weight of resistance band and loop it around a sturdy anchor point. Lie face down with one leg bent at the knee, and loop the other end of the band around that foot. Curl the banded foot in towards the glutes. Alternatively, use a short resistance band and loop it around both legs, bending one foot in to your glutes at a time.
Are Hamstring Curls Worth Doing?
Hamstring strength is important for a wide range of movements including plyometrics,
deadlifts
,
squats
, and the Olympic lifts. While the hamstrings are worked in these lifts, the quads and glutes can often take over. Hamstring curls are an effective way to isolate and strengthen the hamstrings and prevent muscular imbalances or injuries.
Banded Hamstring Curl Tips
Banded hamstring curls can be done with either a short resistance band looped around both legs, or a long resistance band looped round an anchor point.
Keep your upper body flat on the floor with your hips pressed into the floor throughout the movement.
Keep the foot of your working leg flexed during the rep to activate the muscles of your hamstrings.
Focus on maintaining a steady tempo on both the lifting and lowering phase of each rep.
How To Do Banded Hamstring Curls
If you are using a short resistance band, loop the band around both ankles and lay face down on the floor with both legs extended out behind you. If you are using a long resistance band, loop one end of the band around a sturdy anchor point and the other end around one foot.
Press your hips into the floor and squeeze your hamstrings as you raise the banded foot towards your glutes, keeping your foot flexed. If the band is loped around both ankles, choose one foot to start with.
Pause at the top of the rep, before lowering your foot back to the starting position.
Swap to the other side to repeat the set.
Back to top
Hamstring Curls
Back to all exercises
If you’re not sure if any of the above exercises are suitable for you, please consult your doctor before you start it. Need guidance on how to perform the exercise? Ask a personal trainer at your gym.