Title: Side Plank Clamshells
URL: https://www.puregym.com/exercises/legs/inner-outer-thigh/side-plank-clamshells/

Side Plank Clamshells
What Are Side Plank Clamshells?
Jump straight to instructions
Side plank clamshells
are an advanced version of clamshells that combine the benefits of a bodyweight clamshell with the added challenge of a modified side plank. This exercise targets the muscles on the
outside of the hips
and glutes, and the
core
and obliques, making it a great choice of exercise for stability and strength.
Adding the side plank element to a clamshell movement requires more co-ordination and muscle engagement than doing a clamshell and a side plank separately. Holding your body in a side plank challenges the obliques, transverse abdominis, and quadratus lumborum which builds core stability as you strengthen the hip abductors.
Combining hip abduction and
core work
in an isometric hold is an effective way to build functional strength that will translate to compound lifts,
plyometric
movements, and running. Side plank clamshells are particular good for addressing muscle imbalances and reducing the risk of lower back injuries.
Side plank clamshells are usually done as a bodyweight exercise with no added resistance. If you need to make the movement more challenging, consider adding a resistance band, or resting a light dumbbell on the outside of the upper thigh.
Check out some other abductor exercises:
Seated Hip Abduction,
Side Lying Hip Abduction
,
Standing Hip Abduction
,
Cable Hip Abduction,
Banded Clamshells
Commonly Asked Questions About Side Plank Clamshells
What Are The Benefits Of Side Plank Clamshells?
Side plank clamshells work the small muscles on the outside of the hips and glutes and the core muscles at the same time. This makes side plank clamshells an efficient way to strengthen and stabilise the trunk and pelvis which will help you lift heavier weights and move from side to side with less risk of injury.
What Muscles Do Side Plank Clamshells Work?
Side plank clamshells primarily target the hip abductor muscles, including the gluteus medius, gluteus minimus, and tensor fasciae latae (TFL). Adding a side plank brings in the core muscles, particularly the obliques, transverse abdominis, and quadratus lumborum.
Are Clamshells Good For Inner Thighs?
No, clamshell exercises are an abduction exercise which means they work the muscles that abduct the hip and leg. Abductor muscles include the gluteus medius, gluteus minimus, and outside of the hip. To target the inner thigh, you should do adductor exercises.
Side Plank Clamshells Tips
Position the lower elbow under the shoulder for stability in the side plank.
Keep the body in a straight line from knees to shoulders.
Think about pushing up into the lower hip for a strong side plank.
Place the upper hand on the outside of the hip, or raise it in the air for an extra challenge.
How To Do Side Plank Clamshells
Lie on your side with your knees bent, legs stacked on top of each other.
Lift your upper body up onto the elbow and forearm of your bottom arm.
Keep your body in a straight line without tipping forward or backward.
In this side plank position, open and close the top knee by pivoting at the hip joint.
Do the required number of reps, maintaining the side plank position.
Change to the other side and repeat.