Title: Banded Clamshells
URL: https://www.puregym.com/exercises/legs/inner-outer-thigh/clamshells/

Banded Clamshells
What Are Clamshells?
Jump straight to instructions
Clamshells
are a bodyweight exercise that targets the abductor muscles on the outside of the glutes and hips. These muscles include the gluteus medius, gluteus minimus, and tensor fasciae latae (TFL) at the top of the outer thigh.
Clamshells can be done with or without a resistance band to build strength and stability in the hip, pelvis, and lower back, all of which is important for lateral movements like sideways hops or jumps which are often used in sports. Strengthening the abductors also helps stabilise the pelvis, allowing you to lift heavier weights in compound
leg exercises
like
squats
.
Lying clamshells and banded clamshells are a versatile hip abductor exercise that you can do at the gym or at home, as part of a warm up or mobility routine, or as a superset with other
outer thigh and hip exercises
. If you're using a resistance band, you can make the exercise more challenging by using thicker bands as your strength and muscular endurance improves.
Banded clamshells and bodyweight clamshells also work the core which will help to build strength through your entire torso, from hips and glutes to core and lower back. Clamshells are a great way to improve alignment and reduce the risk of injuries like IT band syndrome, knee pain, and lower back pain.
Try doing clamshells as a superset with other abductor exercises to strengthen the smaller hip muscles that will support your performance in the gym.
Check out some other abductor exercises:
Seated Hip Abduction,
Side Lying Hip Abduction
,
Standing Hip Abduction
,
Cable Hip Abduction,
Side Plank Clamshell
Commonly Asked Questions About Clamshells
What Muscles Do Clamshells Work?
Clamshell bodyweight exercises work the hip abductor muscles on the outside of the hip, glutes, and thighs. These muscles are responsible for moving the legs outward and stabilising the pelvis during plyometrics and heavier lifts.
What Are Clamshells Exercise Good For?
Clamshell exercises are a simple and effective way to activate and strengthen the glutes and hip abductors to improve pelvic stability, lower body alignment, and hip strength. This reduces the risk of lower body injuries, including knee and lower back pain. Stronger abductors also boost performance when a movement requires explosive power or sideways movement.
Where Are You Supposed To Feel Clamshells?
Clamshells target smaller muscles that are overlooked in compound leg exercises. Make sure you feel the outside of the hip contracting and the deeper muscles of the glutes working. It can help to place your top hand on the outside of your hip for better mind/muscle connection.
How Often To Do Clamshell Exercise?
Clamshells are a bodyweight exercise, so you can do them frequently without needing much recovery. To strengthen your outer hip and glutes, do bodyweight or banded clamshells 2-3 times per week as part of lower body sessions or leg day. If you’ve got muscular imbalances or are rehabbing an injury, you might need to do clamshells more often. Ask the advice of a physio or qualified fitness professional for guidance.
Clamshell Exercise Tips
In the start position, have your heels are in line with your hips, knees in front of the body.
If using a resistance band, put it around your legs just above your knees.
Put the upper hand on the floor in front of your chest for stability.
Make sure your body doesn’t tip forward or back as you perform the movement.
Keep the clamshell movement small to focus on the outer hips.
How To Do Banded Clamshells
Lower your body to the floor so your head is resting on your lower arm.
Put the hand of your upper arm on the floor in front of you for stability.
Keep your feet together and on the ground as you open and close your knees.
Pause at the top of the movement to squeeze the outer glutes.
Complete your reps then turn over to repeat on the other side.