Title: Resistance Band Leg Press
URL: https://www.puregym.com/exercises/legs/quad-exercises/leg-presses/resistance-band-leg-press/

Resistance Band Leg Press
What Is A Resistance Band Leg Press?
The
resistance band leg press
is a beginner-friendly variation of the leg press which can be carried out at home or in the gym, requiring only a long resistance band. Working the quads, glutes, and hamstrings, this exercise mimics the movement pattern of the 45-degree leg press but can also be carried out unilaterally (single leg) to increase the challenge.
The resistance band leg press can also be made more challenging by using thicker or multiple resistance bands to increase the resistance, however it will not provide as much resistance as using a leg press machine. The lighter load makes this ideal for beginners learning the movement, and for rehabilitation. It can also be a good alternative solution for those who do not have access to a leg press machine, for example while travelling.
Jump straight to instructions
Resistance Band Leg Press Tips
While the resistance band leg press has minimal risk of injury, it’s still important to maintain good form to prevent injuries. Avoiding locking the knees will prevent unnecessary strain on the knee joint.
The resistance band should be placed around the heel of the feet rather than the ball of the feet to ensure tension is placed on the quads.
How To Do A Resistance Band Leg Press
Start by sitting on the floor and looping one end of the resistance band around your shoulders. Loop the other end of the resistance band around your heels. You can also hold the resistance band around chest height rather than looping it around your shoulders.
Lie back so that your torso and hips are on the floor with your knees tucked towards your chest, and feet are at a 45 degree angle to the floor.
Loop a resistance band around the heels of your feet and your shoulders.
Start the reps by pushing your feet against the resistance band and extending your legs diagonally, stopping when your legs are extended but with a soft bend in the knee.
Hold the top position for a second before slowly allowing the band to lower back to the starting position.
Back to top
Back To All Leg Presses
Back to all exercises
If you’re not sure if any of the above exercises are suitable for you, please consult your doctor before you start it. Need guidance on how to perform the exercise? Ask a personal trainer at your gym.