Title: Lateral Lunges
URL: https://www.puregym.com/exercises/legs/quad-exercises/lunges/lateral-lunges/

Lateral Lunges
What Is A Lateral Lunge?
Jump straight to instructions
Lateral lunges
, also known as side lunges, are a lunge variation where the foot is stepped out to the side. Like other lunges, this exercise works the quads, hamstrings, glutes, calves and core, however it also emphasises the adductors and abductors, which are the smaller muscles in the inner and outer thigh. Strengthening the smaller muscles can help to reduce muscular imbalances and prevent injury.
Lateral lunges have many benefits. In addition to strengthening the lower body, they can help to improve hip and calf mobility, increase stability, balance, and coordination, and reduce strength imbalances between the two sides. Lateral lunges also teach the body to be strong and stable in a sideways motion, which many exercises do not address.
Check out our other lunge variations:
forward lunges
,
reverse lunges
,
curtsy lunges
,
walking lunges
,
sprinter lunges
.
Commonly Asked Questions On Lateral Lunges
What Are Lateral Lunges Good For?
Lateral lunges are good for building lower body strength, stability, and mobility. They train the legs in a different movement pattern to conventional lifts like squats and deadlifts, helping to strengthen smaller muscles like the adductors, which can reduce the risk of injury.
What Muscles Do Lateral Lunges Work?
Lateral lunges work all the lower body muscles, including the quads, hamstrings, glutes, calves and adductors and abductors. They also work the core and can improve balance and coordination.
Are Lateral Lunges Effective?
Lateral lunges are an effective exercise for building strength and stability. To increase the difficulty and sufficiently challenge the muscles, you can add weights such as dumbbells, kettlebells, and barbells.
Lateral Lunge Tips
Lateral lunges are an effective exercise for building strength and stability. To increase the difficulty and sufficiently challenge the muscles, you can add weights such as dumbbells, kettlebells, and barbells.
How To Do Lateral Lunges
Take a big step out to the side with your right leg and lower till your right knee is at roughly 90 degrees, keeping your back straight and core tight. You can extend your arms out in front of you or put your hands on your hips. Keep your trailing leg straight.
Push back up to starting position by pressing that right leg into the floor and extending that leg.
Repeat for however many reps, and repeat this with the left leg.
Back to top
Back To All Squat Exercises
Back to all exercises
If you’re not sure if any of the above exercises are suitable for you, please consult your doctor before you start it. Need guidance on how to perform the exercise? Ask a personal trainer at your gym.