Title: Jumping Lunges
URL: https://www.puregym.com/exercises/legs/quad-exercises/lunges/jumping-lunges/

Jumping Lunges
What Is A Jumping Lunge?
Jump straight to instructions
The
jumping lunge
is a variation of the forward lunge that involves jumping up and switching the lunging leg while in the air.
Jump lunges work the quads, glutes, hamstrings, calves, and core, and can help to improve stability, balance, and coordination. A type of plyometric exercise, jumping lunges are also great for building strength, power, and cardio endurance. It's an excellent exercise for those looking to improve their athletic performance and increase speed.
Due to their explosive nature, jumping lunges work well between exercises to keep the heart rate up, as part of a HIIT workout, or as a finisher exercise.
Check out our other lunge variations:
clock lunges
,
lateral lunges
,
curtsy lunges
,
walking lunges
,
sprinter lunges
.
Commonly Asked Questions On Jumping Lunges
How Many Jumping Lunges Should I Do?
There isn’t one correct number of jumping lunges to do; the amount will vary depending on your workout goal and fitness level. For HIIT workouts or to increase your heart rate, 30 seconds or 6-10 reps is a good aim. For improving strength and power, start with 3-4 sets of 8-12. As these become easier, you may want to consider adding weight to your jump lunges.
What Muscles Do Jump Lunges Work?
Jumping lunges work the quads, glutes, hamstrings, and calves, as well as the core and stabilising muscles in the lower body and hips.
Do Jumping Lunges Build Muscle?
Jumping lunges can help to build muscle, however the main benefit of this exercise is an increase in strength, speed, and power, rather than muscular hypertrophy. This is because it is difficult to continually increase the weight or reps without reducing the explosiveness of the exercise. For building muscle, other lunge variations like the forward lunge may be more useful.
Jumping Lunge Tips
Jumping lunges are an advanced exercise that requires a good amount of ankle, knee, and hip stability. If you’re new to this exercise, we’d recommend starting with forward lunges to build strength and stability. Once you’ve perfected the technique, you can practice jumping lunges.
How To Do Reverse Lunges
Stand with feet shoulder-width apart, hands on your hips or in front of your chest.
Engage your core then jump up and send your right leg forward and left leg backwards. As you land, bend your knees so you end up in a lunge position with both knees at a 90-degree angle.
Jump up and switch your legs while they are in the air so you land back into a lunge with your left leg is forward and right leg back.
Repeat for the required amount of reps.
Back to top
Back To All Squat Exercises
Back to all exercises
If you’re not sure if any of the above exercises are suitable for you, please consult your doctor before you start it. Need guidance on how to perform the exercise? Ask a personal trainer at your gym.