Title: Landmine Squats
URL: https://www.puregym.com/exercises/legs/quad-exercises/squats/landmine-squat/

Landmine Squats
What Are Landmine Squats?
Jump to instructions
The
landmine squat
is a variation which uses the landmine attachment to load the squat anteriorly while also providing a fixed bar bath which can help with squat form. The landmine is an attachment which allows one end of a barbell to be fixed to a post so that it can rotate 360 degrees and move up and down.
Similar to the front-loaded goblet squat, the landmine can aid performers to reach greater depth while also maintaining centre of gravity, preventing the weight from shifting forwards. The fixed path aids helps with stability, making this squat slightly easier than a barbell squat.
Like all squats, the landmine squat targets the quads, glutes, hamstrings, and calves. Due to the front loading of the landmine, it also works the upper back muscles -- and it places less pressure on the lower back.
Check out some other squat variations:
zercher squats
,
suitcase squats
,
pistol squats
,
squat jumps
,
broad jumps
Commonly Asked Questions On Landmine Squats
What Is The Landmine Squat Good For?
The landmine squat is a great exercise if you want to build lower body strength but do not have the stability needed for a back squat or front squat. It’s also good for those wanting to emphasise the quads as it’s easier to reach more depth which allows the quads to be challenged further.
Can The Landmine Squat Replace The Back Squat?
The landmine squat can be used in replacement for the back squat, however it’s important to acknowledge their differences. While landmine squats are usually loaded anteriorly, you can load it at the posterior to closely replicate the back squat, but the back squat would demand greater stability and core engagement.
Both the landmine and back squat could be involved in a training schedule but if you’re new to squatting the landmine may be a more suitable place to start.
Are Landmine Hack Squats Good?
The landmine hack squat combines the squat and hack squat to target the lower body muscles. This exercise option places less pressure on the back and makes a suitable alternative if a hack squat machine is not available to you.
Landmine Squat Tips
If you’re working your way up to the barbell back squat, or you’re returning from injury, the landmine squat is a good option. This squat alternative teaches correct form while also being low impact to further reduce injury risks.
You can load the barbell from the front or the back. If you want a greater focus on the quads, load from the front. If you’re looking for a similar exercise to the back squat, load I from the back.
How To Do Landmine Squats
Attach the barbell to the landmine attachment and load the free end of the bar with weight places if needed.
Pick the end of the barbell up and hold it with both hands at chest height and then take your squat stance (between hip and shoulder width). You can also hold the bar above your head.
Keeping the bar at chest height with your elbows tucked in throughout the movement, squat down by pushing your hips back and bending the knees. Push your knees out as they bend to prevent caving in.
Squat down until your thighs are parallel or just below parallel with the floor, then return to standing by driving through your feet. Imagine as if you’re pushing the ground away through the whole of both feet.
Lightly squeeze your glutes as you stand tall, avoiding pushing your hips too far forward and maintaining a soft bend in the knee.
Back to top
Back To All Squat Exercises
Back to all exercises
If you’re not sure if any of the above exercises are suitable for you, please consult your doctor before you start it. Need guidance on how to perform the exercise? Ask a personal trainer at your gym.