Title: Pulse Squats
URL: https://www.puregym.com/exercises/legs/quad-exercises/squats/pulse-squats/

Pulse Squats
What Are Pulse Squats?
Jump to instructions
Pulse squats
are a squat variation that requires the person to remain in the bottom portion of the squat and pulse up and down here. It is a great progression from the
bodyweight squat
, and the technique can also be used with weighted squats.
Pulse squats place constant tension on the lower body muscles and challenges the muscles in a lengthened position, both which make this variation feel difficult. Performing pulse squats can help to improve other squat variations.
Check out some other squat variations:
tempo squats
,
landmine squats
,
zercher squats
,
suitcase squats
,
pistol squats
,
Commonly Asked Questions On Pulse Squats
What Are Pulse Squats Good For?
Pulse squats challenge the glutes, hamstrings, and quads in the lengthened position and place the muscles under constant tension. They can help to build strength and endurance, as well as coordination and stability, and even improve hip mobility.
Performing pulse squats will help performance at the bottom position of the squat which is the most challenging portion of the squat movement and will carry over well to other squat variations. It works well in a strength workout, as part of a superset, or in a HIIT workout.
What Are Pulse Reps?
Pulse reps involve performing a small movement multiple times, or pulsing. In pulse squats, this pulse is performed at the bottom quarter of the squat, so you would squat down, push up a quarter of the way back up, and pulse up and down from there. One quarter up and down would be one rep.
Do Pulse Squats Build Muscle?
Pulse squats can be a useful tool for building muscle as it places the muscles under tension for a longer period of time. If you have considerable strength already and have to complete a lot of reps (20+) to feel fatigued, add weights to the squat.
Pulse Squat Tips
Pulse squats can help to build lower body strength and hip mobility, and can help to improve the performance of other squat variations.
You may find yourself fatiguing quickly with this exercise. Make sure you focus on keeping your chest high and push through the entirety of both feet - try not to let your heels lift off the floor!
How To Do Pulse Squats
Adopt your preferred squat stance by finding a foot positioning that feels comfortable, aiming for somewhere between shoulder and hip width apart. Slightly rotate your feet externally. If using weights, set up as you would for a weighted squat.
Engage your core and then squat down by pushing your hips back and bending at the knee, pushing the knees out to prevent them caving in.
Stop when you reach parallel or just below parallel with the floor. This is your starting position.
Drive up by pushing the ground away through the heels, stopping when you reach one quarter of the way to standing.
Squat back down to parallel, making sure to keep a neutral spine throughout. This is one rep.
After you’ve completed your reps, push through both feet until you’re standing tall, keeping a soft bend in the knee.
Back to top
Back To All Squat Exercises
Back to all exercises
If you’re not sure if any of the above exercises are suitable for you, please consult your doctor before you start it. Need guidance on how to perform the exercise? Ask a personal trainer at your gym.