Title: Single Leg Wall Sits
URL: https://www.puregym.com/exercises/legs/quad-exercises/wall-sits/single-wall-sit/

Single Leg Wall Sits
What Is A Single Leg Wall Sit?
The
single leg wall sit
is a unilateral variation of the wall sit, an isometric exercise that challenges the muscles in the lower body by holding a squat position against a wall. Single leg wall sits build strength and stamina in the quads, glutes, hamstrings, hip flexors, and calves, while also helping to improve core strength, balance, and coordination.
Unilateral exercises are great for improving muscular imbalances between the two sides. Single leg wall sits can help to reduce strength and endurance differences between the two legs. As a low impact exercise, single leg wall sits are also ideal for injury prevention and rehabilitation.
Jump straight to instructions
Check out our other wall sit variations:
wall sits and loaded wall sits
.
Commonly Asked Questions On Single Leg Wall Sits
Are Single Leg Wall Sits Dangerous?
Single leg wall sits are not dangerous, however it’s advisable to build up strength with normal wall sits and loaded wall sits before attempting this exercise.
What Muscles Do Single Leg Wall Sits Work?
Single leg wall sits primarily target the quads, with the glutes, hamstrings, calves, hip flexors, and core also worked. This exercise also challenges the smaller stabilising muscles in the lower body and core, helping to improve balance and stability.
Single Leg Wall Sit Benefits?
Some of the benefits of single leg wall sits include building lower body strength and stability, improve core strength and balance, reducing strength imbalances between the two legs, and improving posture. Additional benefits include building physical endurance and mental resilience.
Single Leg Wall Sit Tips
While it’s possible to enter a wall sit on one leg, most people find it easier to get the correct position by entering a standard wall sit, and then raising one leg.
To reduce muscular imbalances, start on your weaker side. This allows you to keep to the same wall sit duration for both legs, which will eventually even out strength differences.
How To Do A Single Leg Wall Sit
Stand with your back against a wall and place your feet in front of you, hip-width apart.
Lower your hips down until your thighs are parallel with the floor and knees stacked above your ankles. Keep your core engaged and your back, glutes, and head flat against the wall.
Extend your right leg out so it's parallel with the floor, and then hold this position for the desired time.
Bring your foot back to the floor and repeat on the other side.
Back to top
Back To All Squat Exercises
Back to all exercises
If you’re not sure if any of the above exercises are suitable for you, please consult your doctor before you start it. Need guidance on how to perform the exercise? Ask a personal trainer at your gym.