Title: Burpee Broad Jump
URL: https://www.puregym.com/exercises/plyometrics/burpees/burpee-broad-jump/

Burpee Broad Jump
What Is A Burpee Broad Jump?
Jump straight to instructions
Burpee broad jumps
combine the
full body
exercise of a burpee with the explosive power of a standing long
jump
, taking this plyometric exercise to a new level. This exercise starts with a standard burpee but instead of ending the rep standing, you leap forward into a broad jump, land in a squat, and start your next rep.
Burpee broad jumps train explosive power and agility, elements which are often missed in standard strength training. This style of training transfers into your big compound lifts as well as into any sports you might play.
The complex movement pattern of burpee broad jumps are also a great way to improve coordination and body awareness as you work on your cardio conditioning. They are a time-efficient way to boost your fitness and burn a significant number of calories, which is good news for fat loss or body composition.
This advanced type of burpee exercise works a lot of muscle groups, including your legs and glutes (for the jumping and landing), chest and shoulders (in the push up phase), and core (throughout the whole movement). Burpee broad jumps will even work your arms and calves.
Burpee broad jumps are an advanced
plyometric exercise
that can be used in HIIT workouts, as a cardio finisher, or as part of your
full body
sessions. As with any high-impact exercise, it's important to learn and maintain proper form. If you're new to burpee broad jumps, we recommend that you master regular burpees and broad jumps separately before combining them.
Check out some other burpee variations:
Burpee
,
Half Burpee
,
One Legged Burpee
,
Burpee With Dumbbells
,
Devil's Press
,
Burpee To Tuck Jump
Commonly Asked Questions About Burpee Broad Jumps
What Are The Standards For Burpee Broad Jump?
To do a burpee broad jump, you need leap forward as far as you can when you stand up from the burpee. Instead of standing tall (as you would at the end of a traditional burpee), propel yourself forward into a long jump.
What Are The Benefits Of Broad Jump Burpees?
Broad jump burpees combine the full-body exercise of a burpee with the explosive power of a horizontal jump. This plyometric exercise raises your heart rate and works every major muscle group, and also trains your agility and power.
What Is The Difference Between A Burpee And A Burpee Broad Jump?
The difference between a burpee and a burpee broad jump is at the end of each rep. In a regular burpee, you jump your feet in towards your hands, stand up, and do a vertical jump. In a burpee broad jump, you jump your feet in towards your hands, start to stand up, and perform a forward jump when your legs are still bent.
Burpee Broad Jump Tips
Perform the burpee broad jump in one fluid movement, without stopping before or after the jump.
Use your arms to assist with momentum on the forward leap.
Land from the jump in a squat position with knees bent.
If you don’t have room to keep going forwards, run back to your original start position after every jump.
How To Do A Burpee Broad Jump
Stand with your feet hip width apart, hands by your sides.
Brace your core as you hinge at the hips to place your hands on the floor in front of your feet, then kick your feet back into a plank position.
Bend your elbows to lower your body to the floor, then push back up.
Jump both feet in towards your hands and drive through the feet to stand up with knees slightly bent.
As you stand, swing your arms behind you.
Drive through the feet and leap forward, swinging the arms forward for momentum.
Land in a squat position and start again from step 2.
Back To Top
Back To All Burpees
Back to all exercises
If you’re not sure if any of the above exercises are suitable for you, please consult your doctor before you start it. Need guidance on how to perform the exercise? Ask a personal trainer at your gym.