Title: Devils Press
URL: https://www.puregym.com/exercises/plyometrics/burpees/devils-press/

Devil’s Press
What Is A Devil’s Press?
Jump straight to instructions
The
devil's press
is a burpee variation that combines a dumbbell burpee with a double dumbbell snatch, creating a challenging and explosive compound exercise. It starts with a dumbbell burpee and adds a double dumbbell snatch to the end of the movement when you stand up.
The devil's press is an advanced movement that raises the heart rate to work your cardio fitness and burn calories, while also building full body strength and power. It targets all the major muscle groups, including the chest, arms, and shoulders, core, glutes, and legs. Devil's press removes some of the wrist extension necessary for full burpees, making them a good choice if you need to protect your wrists.
The devil's press is an advanced exercise but you can safely develop good technique by choosing light dumbbells and going slowly to master each movement. Once you are confident with each part of the devil's press exercise, you can pick up the pace and increase the dumbbell weights.
Devil's press is a challenging, intense exercise that can be used in
full-body
workouts to work strength and fitness or as a conditioning exercise at the end of your session. Take time to learn devil's press technique with our tips below.
Check out some other burpee variations:
Burpee
,
Half Burpee
,
One Legged Burpee
,
Burpee With Dumbbells,
Burpee Broad Jump
,
Burpee To Tuck Jump
Commonly Asked Questions About Devil’s Press
How To Do Devil’s Press?
A devil’s press is a high intensity exercise that combines a dumbbell burpee with a dumbbell snatch. To perform a devil’s press, start in a standing position holding dumbbells, perform a burpee, then stand and do a double dumbbell snatch holding the dumbbells throughout the exercise.
Is Devil's Press A Good Exercise?
Devil’s press is an advanced and challenging exercise that is effective for raising the heart rate, burning calories, and building strength throughout the arms, chest, shoulders, back and core, legs and glutes.
What Are The Rules For The Devil's Press?
To do a devil’s press you perform a dumbbell burpee and then a dumbbell snatch when you stand up. You should keep hold of both dumbbells throughout the exercise and move through the exercise continuously, rather than stopping between movements.
Devil’s Press Tips
Engage your core, especially when you are lowering the dumbbells to the ground and performing the dumbbell snatch.
Use hex dumbbells (not round dumbbells) so they won’t roll on the floor during the burpee movement.
Put the dumbbells on the floor wide enough that your chest can fit between them.
Control the dumbbells on the way down from the dumbbell snatch to the standing position.
How To Do A Devil’s Press
Stand with feet hip width apart, holding a dumbbell in each hand.
Hinge at the hips and bend your knees to put the dumbbells on the floor, shoulder width apart.
Keep hold of the dumbbells as you jump both feet back into a plank position.
Lower your chest down between the dumbbells so your body is on the floor.
Push the dumbbells into the floor and jump both feet forward so they are outside the dumbbells.
Brace your core as you stand up, allowing the dumbbells to swing back through your legs.
Drive through your feet and bring your hips forward to come up to standing, whilst snatching both dumbbells overhead.
Lock the dumbbells out at the top of the snatch position, then control them down.
To start the next rep, lower the dumbbells between your feet and jump your feet back into a plank position.
Back To Top
Back To All Burpees
Back to all exercises
If you’re not sure if any of the above exercises are suitable for you, please consult your doctor before you start it. Need guidance on how to perform the exercise? Ask a personal trainer at your gym.