Title: Overhead Kettlebell Swings
URL: https://www.puregym.com/exercises/plyometrics/kettlebells/overhead-kb-swing/

Overhead Kettlebell Swings
What are Overhead Kettlebell Swings?
Jump straight to instructions
Overhead kettlebell swings
are a dynamic, full body exercise that combines strength training,
cardio
, and functional fitness. The overhead kettlebell swing variation involves swinging the kettlebell to an overhead position which works the
core
and upper body more than traditional
two hand kettlebell swings
.
Overhead kettlebell swings work the muscles of the
glutes
and
back
, and bring in additional upper body muscles, especially the
shoulders
and triceps. Taking the kettlebell overhead also increases the cardiovascular demand, making it even more effective for cardio fitness.
Overhead kettlebell swings have an extended range of motion and challenge your balance and coordination. They also target shoulder and core stability, making them a useful exercise for sports and injury prevention as well as general gym training.
When you're starting with overhead swings, use a lighter weight than you would choose for traditional two hand kettlebell swings. Overhead kettlebell swings can be a good finisher on leg days, back sessions, or as part of your gym cardio routine. Learn proper overhead kettlebell swing technique with our tips and demo video below.
Check out our other kettlebell exercises:
Two Handed Kettlebell Swing
,
One Arm Kettlebell Swing
Commonly Asked Questions About Overhead Kettlebell Swings
Are Overhead Kettlebell Swings Good?
Overhead kettlebell swings are a good exercise for cardio fitness and full body strength, especially in the glutes, hamstrings, core, and shoulders. They work lots of muscle groups, improve core and shoulder stability, and get the heart rate up, and work well in both strength and cardio workouts as well as circuit training and HIIT workouts.
Should Kettlebell Swings Go Above Your Head?
Traditional kettlebell swings (also called Russian swings) take the kettlebell to chest height. Overhead kettlebell swings are a different exercise, that involves continuing the momentum of the kettlebell so it goes directly above your head. This extended range of motion increases core and shoulder engagement. Overhead kettlebell swings and traditional Russian swings are different exercises with slightly different benefits.
What Muscles Do The Kettlebell Swing Work?
Kettlebell swings primarily work the posterior chain muscles in the back of the body, which include the glutes, hamstrings, and lower back. Kettlebell swings also engage the core for stability and the upper body, particularly the shoulders, lats, traps, and arms. Holding on to the kettlebell works the grip and forearm muscles.
How To Do An Overhead Swing?
Start an overhead kettlebell swing like a traditional two hand kettlebell swing. Hold the kettlebell with both hands, palms facing back. Let the kettlebell swing back between your legs, then use the power of your hips to send the kettlebell to chest height. At this point in the movement, engage your lats and squeeze your glutes to continue the momentum, taking the kettlebell overhead. The movement ends when the kettlebell is overhead, with the base facing the ceiling. Keep hold of the kettlebell as it naturally falls back in front of your body, guiding it between your legs to start the next rep.
Overhead Kettlebell Swing Tips
Use a lighter kettlebell for overhead swings than for traditional kettlebell swings.
Keep your arms loose and straight during the movement, and lock them out when the kettlebell is overhead.
Maintain a straight spine and engaged core throughout each rep.
How To Do Overhead Kettlebell Swings
Stand with your feet hip width or slightly wider.
Squat down and take hold of the kettlebell with both hands, palms facing back.
Send your hips back, allowing the kettlebell to swing between your legs.
Drive the hips forward, letting the momentum swing the kettlebell forward.
As the kettlebell reaches your chest, engage your lats and squeeze your glutes to take the kettlebell overhead.
Lock your arms out briefly when the base of the kettlebell is facing the ceiling.
Allow the kettlebell to follow the same path as it comes down, and let it follow through between your legs.
Repeat the movement with no break, keeping momentum in the kettlebell swing movement.
Back To Top
Back to all kettlebell exercises
Back to all exercises
If you’re not sure if any of the above exercises are suitable for you, please consult your doctor before you start it. Need guidance on how to perform the exercise? Ask a personal trainer at your gym.