Title: Two Handed Kettlebell Swings
URL: https://www.puregym.com/exercises/plyometrics/kettlebells/two-hand-kb-swing/

Two Handed Kettlebell Swings
What Are Two Handed Kettlebell Swings?
Jump straight to instructions
Two handed kettlebell swings
are a dynamic full-body exercise that work multiple muscle groups, particularly the muscles of the posterior chain including the
glutes
, hamstrings,
back
, traps, and shoulders. They also work the core,
forearms, and grip
while building full body power and coordination.
In addition to building strength and endurance, kettlebell swings raise heart rate and can improve your cardio fitness and burn calories.
Kettlebell swings (also known as Russian swings) emphasise explosive hip extension, improving your functional strength, power, and training performance for sports and compound gym lifts such as
deadlifts
. Holding one kettlebell with two hands means you can use a heavier weight and balance the load across the body.
Adding kettlebell swings into your workout routine can boost your overall fitness, work your postural muscles, and strengthen almost every muscle in your body (especially your back and glutes). As a high intensity exercise, they work great as part of a conditioning circuit with other
cardio exercises
, or as a finisher on
back
or upper body day.
Start by using a moderate weight kettlebell as you get used to controlling the movement. Check out our two handed kettlebell technique tips and demo video below.
Check out our other kettlebell exercises:
One Arm Kettlebell Swing
,
Overhead Kettlebell Swing
Commonly Asked Questions About Two Handed Kettlebell Swings
How To Do A Two Arm Kettlebell Swing?
Stand with feet hip width or slightly wider and hold the kettlebell in both hands, so it’s hanging down in front of you. Hinge at the hips, keeping your arms straight, and let the kettlebell swing back between your legs. Stand up straight and drive your hips forward, keeping your arms straight, so the hip drive sends the kettlebell out to chest height. As the kettlebell comes back down, hinge at the hips so it passes back through your legs again.
When Completing A Two Arm Kettlebell Swing How Should You Hold Your Arms?
In a two arm kettlebell swing, your arms should remain straight but not locked. Your arms don’t lift the kettlebell, instead the connect your body and the weight to transfer the power generated by your hips. Keep your shoulders down and back, and let your arms move naturally with the kettlebell momentum. Keep a firm grip on the kettlebell handle with both hands throughout the movement.
What Is A Double Kettlebell Swing?
A double kettlebell swing is a variation of the standard kettlebell swing where you use two kettlebells instead of one, holding one kettlebell in each hand. This exercise follows the same hip hinge movement as a two handed kettlebell swing but requires more coordination. Double kettlebell swings challenge your grip strength and core stability and allow you to lift more weight.
What Is A Double Kettlebell Swing?
A double kettlebell swing is a variation of the standard kettlebell swing where you use two kettlebells instead of one, holding one kettlebell in each hand. This exercise follows the same hip hinge movement as a two handed kettlebell swing but requires more coordination. Double kettlebell swings challenge your grip strength and core stability and allow you to lift more weight.
Two Handed Kettlebell Swing Tips
Keep your arms straight but avoid locking the elbows.
Focus on hinging at the hips to move the kettlebell, rather than using your arms to lift it.
Keep your core engaged throughout the entire movement.
How To Do Two Handed Kettlebell Swings
Stand with feet shoulder width or slightly wider.
Squat down and pick up the kettlebell with both hands, palms facing your body.
As you stand up, let the kettlebell naturally swing back through your legs.
As you straighten your legs, push through the heels and explode through the hips, swinging the kettlebell to chest height.
As the kettlebell swings back down between your legs, hinge your hips backwards with slightly bent legs.
Keep the kettlebell swinging with momentum as you complete your reps.
Back To Top
Back to all kettlebell exercises
Back to all exercises
If you’re not sure if any of the above exercises are suitable for you, please consult your doctor before you start it. Need guidance on how to perform the exercise? Ask a personal trainer at your gym.