Title: Jump Exercises
URL: https://www.puregym.com/exercises/plyometrics/jumps/

Jump Exercises
What are Jump Exercises?
See all jump exercises
Jump exercises
are a type of plyometric training that works the cardiovascular system while improving strength, power, coordination, and agility.
Jumping works the calves, quads, glutes, hamstrings, and core, with the upper body often involved too. Adding jumps into your workouts can help to build explosive power, increase bone density, and build muscle strength and size. Jumping exercises are great at burning calories and increasing metabolism while improving aerobic efficiency.
Jumps are a great way for athletes to build power and agility, but anyone can benefit from adding jump variations into their routine. These exercises work great as part of a cardio circuit, to warm up before leg day, or to keep the heart rate up during strength training.
Check out some other plyometrics exercises:
Burpees
,
Mountain Climbers
,
Kettlebell Swings
Commonly Asked Questions on Jumping Exercises
What Are The Benefits Of Jumping Exercise?
Jumping exercises have multiple benefits, including increased strength, power, agility, and coordination alongside improved cardiovascular health. Jumping is also a great way to burn calories and improve metabolism.
Is Jumping Better Than Squats?
Jumping and
squats
are very different exercises and neither is better or worse. If your goal is to increase strength and muscle mass, squats are likely more effective as you can move heavier weights. Jumps are better for building explosive power, improving agility, and working the cardiovascular system. Including both in your weekly workouts is a great way to get the benefits of each.
Is Jumping Good To Lose Belly Fat?
While it isn’t possible to target specific areas of fat like the belly, jumping can be a great way to burn calories and assist with fat loss by helping to create a calorie deficit.
Jump Exercise Tips
Keep your knees slightly bent and land on the balls of your feet to avoid injury when jumping.
Push through your feet while extending the hips to propel yourself off the ground.
Jump Exercise Variations
Box jumps work lower body power, explosiveness, and co-ordination.
See Box Jumps
Tuck Jumps are an explosive jumping exercise that brings the knees to  the chest for lower body power and core strength.
See Tuck Jumps
Pike jumps are an advanced plyometric exercise jumping with legs in a pike position, working explosive power and core strength.
See Pike Jumps
Lateral jumps are a side-to-side jumping exercise improving lower body power, agility, and co-ordination.
See Lateral Jumps
Jumping jacks are a full body jumping exercise that involves moving the arms and legs outwards.
See Jumping Jacks
Squat jumps involve exploding up into the air from the bottom of a squat to build lower body power and strength.
See Squat Jumps
Broad jumps work the legs and glutes, building power, strength, and coordination.
See broad jumps
Back To Top
Back to all plyometrics exercises
Back to all exercises
If you’re not sure if any of the above exercises are suitable for you, please consult your doctor before you start it. Need guidance on how to perform the exercise? Ask a personal trainer at your gym.