Title: Tuck Jumps
URL: https://www.puregym.com/exercises/plyometrics/jumps/tuck-jumps/

Tuck Jumps
What are Tuck Jumps?
Jump straight to instructions
Tuck jumps
are a high-intensity plyometric exercise that builds cardio fitness and works the muscles of the lower body, including the
quads
,
hamstrings
,
glutes
, and
core muscles
. Doing tuck jumps burns calories, builds lower body power, and can improve athletic performance in sports.
To do a tuck jump, you'll perform a vertical jump and pull your knees towards your chest before landing. Like all
plyometric exercises
, tuck jumps develop power through the rapid lengthening and contraction of the muscles. Tuck jumps are a good exercise for
cardio
, lower body power training, or as specific training for sports. You could add tuck jumps to your gym cardio routine, HIIT circuit, or as a
leg
day finisher if you have a good baseline of fitness and
lower body
strength.
Tuck jumps put significant stress on the joints so should be avoided if you've got any knee, ankle, or lower back issues. If you're new to doing tuck jumps, start with 2-3 sets of 5-8 reps, focusing on good form.
Take a look at our technique tips and demo video for tuck jumps below.
Check out some other jump exercises:
Box Jumps,
Pike Jumps
,
Lateral Jumps
,
Broad Jumps
Commonly Asked Questions About Tuck Jumps
Which Muscles Do Tuck Jumps Work?
Tuck jumps are a lower body plyometric exercise that work the quadriceps, hamstrings, glutes, and calves during the jumping phase. The hip flexors and abs work to lift the knees towards the chest. The shoulders and arms also work during the jump phase, and landing from a tuck jump works the muscles of the posterior chain.
What Are Alternatives To Tuck Jumps?
Lower-impact alternatives to tuck jumps include
squat jumps
without the tuck,
step-ups
with a knee drive, or
mountain climbers
. More advanced alternatives to tuck jumps include
box jump
variations or depth jumps which will give you similar plyometric benefits.
What Are The Benefits Of Tuck Jumps?
Tuck jumps develop explosive power, improve vertical jump height, and strengthen fast twitch muscle fibres. They also work the lower body muscles, develop your cardiovascular fitness and burn calories.
What Are The Benefits Of Tuck Jumps?
Tuck jumps develop explosive power, improve vertical jump height, and strengthen fast twitch muscle fibres. They also work the lower body muscles, develop your cardiovascular fitness and burn calories.
Tuck Jumps Tips
Use your arms as momentum to help increase the height.
Land softly on the balls of your feet and maintain soft knees to protect your joints
How To Do Tuck Jumps
Start with your feet shoulder width apart.
Brace your core to protect your back.
Bend your knees slightly into a squat, then push through the feet to perform a vertical jump.
Swing your arms to increase the momentum as you jump.
As you jump, quickly bring your knees towards your chest in a tuck position.
Release the tuck and straighten your legs before you land.
Land on the balls of your feet with a soft bend in your knees.
Back To Top
Back to all jump exercises
Back to all exercises
If you’re not sure if any of the above exercises are suitable for you, please consult your doctor before you start it. Need guidance on how to perform the exercise? Ask a personal trainer at your gym.