Title: Double Unders
URL: https://www.puregym.com/exercises/cardio/skipping/double-unders/

Double Unders
What are Double Unders?
Jump straight to instructions
Double unders
are a challenging
skipping exercise
where the rope passes under your feet twice per jump. It requires timing, speed, and explosive power. To do double unders you will need to jump slower and higher than in standard jump rope skipping whilst turning the rope quickly with your wrists.
Due to their speed, double unders are one of the most high-intensity skipping variations. They raise the heart rate, challenge your fitness, and build
cardio
endurance whilst also working your
legs
,
glutes
, calves, and
shoulders
. Double unders are a good choice of skipping exercise to add intensity to your cardio gym workouts.
The jumping technique and timing of double unders is different to normal single under skipping. You will need to jump higher and slower, turn the rope quickly, and avoid bending your knees too much. Start with two single jumps and one double under to build your confidence with the technique. Once you have mastered double unders, build your endurance by doing sets of 20-25 or timed intervals.
Including double unders in your workouts can increase calorie burn, improve conditioning, and push your fitness through plateaus. They also challenge your focus as you take on a new skill. Double unders are commonly seen in Crossfit workouts and are useful for developing lower body power and fast footwork.
Try double unders as a short conditioning session, as part of a HIIT circuit, or as the focus of a skipping session. As you progress, aim for longer sets with shorter rests.
Take a look at our demo video and tips to learn double unders.
Check out some other skipping exercises:
High Knee Skips
,
Crossovers
,
Side Swings,
Single Unders
Commonly Asked Questions About Double Unders
What Are The Benefits Of Double Unders?
Double unders are a high-intensity skipping exercise that challenge your fitness and conditioning. They improve your agility and lower body power, and work the muscles of the legs, calves, glutes, and shoulders.
Which Muscles Do Double Unders Work?
Double unders work the calves, quads, and hamstrings in jumping motion, and the core muscles, including abs and lower back, to maintain stability. The shoulders, biceps, and forearms work to control the rope.
How Often Should I Include Double Unders In My Workout Routine?
The frequency of double unders in your routine depends on your fitness and goals. Beginners could practice 2 times a week, focusing on technique with short sets of 5-10 reps. More advanced athletes could do double unders 3-4 times a week, incorporating longer sets or timed intervals. Be sure to take enough time to allow your feet and calves to recover from the impact and intensity of double unders.
What Are Alternatives To Double Unders?
If you need alternatives to double unders, try fast paced single unders (normal jump rope skips) to get comparable cardiovascular benefits and develop lower body power, coordination, and agility. If you’re looking for alternatives without a rope, try high knees, burpees, box jumps, or jump squats to get the cardio benefits and explosive leg training.
Double Unders Tips
Practice jumping slower and higher whilst tapping your hands on your legs twice per jump.
Start by adding in one double under after every two regular skips.
Don't let your feet kick up behind you as this will catch the rope.
Keep your elbows in to keep your arms close to your body.
Breathe steadily and avoid holding your breath.
How To Do Double Unders
Hold the skipping rope with the rope behind your feet.
Start doing regular single jumps, jumping in a slow rhythm off the balls of your feet.
Keep your feet together and jump to a height of 4-5 inches.
Keep your arms relaxed and keep your gaze forward.
Back To Top
Back to all skipping exercises
Back to all exercises
If you’re not sure if any of the above exercises are suitable for you, please consult your doctor before you start it. Need guidance on how to perform the exercise? Ask a personal trainer at your gym.