Title: High Knee Skips
URL: https://www.puregym.com/exercises/cardio/skipping/high-knee-skips/

High Knee Skips
What Are High Knee Skips?
Jump straight to instructions
High knee skips
are an intense
cardio
exercise that can be done with or without a skipping rope. As a
skipping exercise
, high knee skips combine the cardio benefits of traditional skipping with extra lower body and core work. To do high knee skips, bring one knee up towards the chest each time the skipping rope passes under the body.
High knee skips are primarily a cardio exercise for fitness, but also works various muscle groups including the
shoulders and arms
,
abs
, and lower body muscles including the calves, hip flexors, and
legs
.
High knee skips are more demanding than regular skipping, making this a good choice for building cardio endurance and burning calories. This exercise will also help improve your coordination, timing, and agility which can be useful training for speed and power in sports.
Try using high knee skips with a rope as part of your warm-up, in a cardio routine, or as a finisher for strength training sessions. Start with short timed intervals and gradually increase the length of time as your fitness improves.
Take a look at our demo video and explanation to learn high knee skip technique.
Check out some other skipping exercises:
Crossovers
,
Side Swing
,
Double Unders
,
Single Unders
Commonly Asked Questions About High Knee Skips
What Are The Benefits of High Knee Skips?
High knee skips increase cardio fitness, work lower body strength and power, and improve coordination and balance. They help develop explosive leg drive which is useful for lots of sports. This exercise also improves hip and core stability.
Which Muscles Do High Knee Skips Work?
High knee skips work the lower body muscles, including the quads, hamstrings, calves, and glutes. The hip flexors lift the knees, and the core muscles maintain balance and stability throughout the movement. Some upper body muscles, including the shoulders, biceps, and forearms will also be worked. High knee skips also work the small stabiliser muscles in the ankles and feet.
How Often Should I Include High Knee Skips In My Workout Routine?
How often you include high knee skips in your routine depends on your fitness level and goals. Beginners could start with 2 sessions per week, of 30 second to 1 minute intervals. As you get fitter, you could do high knee skips 3-4 times a week as a warm up or as part of your main cardio workout. High knee skips are an intense skipping exercise, so build up gradually and take plenty of rest days between sessions.
What Are Alternatives To High Knee Skips?
High knee skips are a high intensity cardio exercise that can be done with or without a rope. Alternatives to high knee skips with a skipping rope include crossovers and double unders. Cardio alternatives include jumping jacks, burpees, and box jumps. These exercises offer cardio benefits and work the leg muscles. Choose an exercise based on your fitness level, available equipment, and training goals.
High Knee Skip Tips
Engage your core and look straight ahead.
Lift the working knee high towards your chest.
Work on coordination so each skip is evenly timed.
How To Do High Knee Skips
Stand with a skipping rope handle in each hand, the rope behind your feet.
Start to skip, keeping your knees soft, core engaged, and gaze directly ahead.
Switch to skipping in a running movement, lifting one foot at a time.
Raise one knee at a time towards your chest as if you were running in place.
Coordinate timing so the rope passes under each foot as it's off the ground.
Back To Top
Back to all skipping exercises
Back to all exercises
If you’re not sure if any of the above exercises are suitable for you, please consult your doctor before you start it. Need guidance on how to perform the exercise? Ask a personal trainer at your gym.