Title: Side Swings
URL: https://www.puregym.com/exercises/cardio/skipping/side-swing/

Side Swings
What Are Side Swings?
Jump straight to instructions
Side swings
are a jump rope exercise that involves swinging the rope to each side of the body whilst moving the feet in a traditional skipping pattern. Side swings are less intense than some other variations of
skipping
, but they bring in more upper body work and allow you to focus on rhythm and foot speed. If you are new to skipping exercises, side swings can be a good way to build fitness and learn the timing that will transfer to other types of skipping cardio. If you already do skipping exercises in your workouts, side swings can be a transition movement that add flair to your combinations.
Side swings are primarily a
cardio
exercise to build cardio endurance and burn calories, but they also help improve your coordination, timing, and agility which can support speed and power in sports. They also work
shoulders and arms
and
legs
. In addition, the sideways movement works your
abs and core
where other skipping exercises do not.
Side swings are a versatile skipping exercise that can be done slowly and steadily, to help you build cardio endurance, or quickly to add intensity. Try doing side swings as part of your warm-up, in a cardio routine, or as a short finisher after strength training. Start with short intervals and gradually increase the length of time as your fitness improves.
Take a look at our demo video and explanation to learn how to do side swings.
Check out some other skipping exercises:
High Knee Skips
,
Crossovers
,
Double Unders
,
Single Unders
Commonly Asked Questions About Side Swings
What Are The Benefits of Side Swings?
Like all skipping exercises, side swings improve your fitness, cardio endurance, and lower body strength. The side-to-side movement also works the abs and core muscles. Side swings are a good way to improve your footwork, timing, and rhythm for other skipping exercises.
Which Muscles Do Side Swings Work?
Side swings work the lower body muscles (quads, hamstrings, calves, and glutes), and the abs and core including the obliques in the side of the body. Side swings also work the shoulders, biceps, and forearms more than some other skipping exercises.
How Often Should I Include Side Swings In My Workout Routine?
How often you include side swings in your routine depends on your fitness level and goals. Beginners could start with 2 sessions per week, of 30-60 second intervals. As you get fitter, you could do side swings 3-4 times a week as a warm up or as part of your main cardio workout.
What Are Alternatives To Side Swings?
Alternatives to side swings with a skipping rope include crossovers and double unders. Cardio alternatives include lateral jumps or lateral burpees both of which will replicate the sideways movement. Choose an alternative based on your fitness level, available equipment, and training goals.
Side Swings Tips
Practice the side swing movement without jumping.
Maintain your foot rhythm throughout the movement.
Try alternating side swings with regular jump rope skips.
How To Do Side Swings
Bring your hands in front of your body so your wrists are loosely together.
Start by swinging the rope from side to side in front of your body.
Add foot movement with jumping or running step as you keep the rope moving.
Once you are confident with this rhythm, try changing your footwork or adding a traditional jump rope movement after every couple of side swings.
Back To Top
Back to all skipping exercises
Back to all exercises
If you’re not sure if any of the above exercises are suitable for you, please consult your doctor before you start it. Need guidance on how to perform the exercise? Ask a personal trainer at your gym.