Title: Jumping Jacks
URL: https://www.puregym.com/exercises/cardio/jumping-jack/jumping-jacks/

Jumping Jacks
What are  Jumping Jacks?
Jump straight to instructions
Jumping jacks
are a full body
cardio
exercise that challenges the cardiovascular system, raises the heart rate, and burns calories. Jumping jacks are sometimes called star jumps, because of the movement pattern which involves jumping both feet out and raising the hands overhead at the same time.
This classic exercise is a regular feature in gym cardio workouts, HIIT sessions, and circuits because it is relatively simple to do and needs no equipment, but is very effective for
full body
training.
As well as building overall fitness, jumping jacks work different muscle groups including the
legs
,
glutes
, and
shoulders
, and support bone density due to the gentle impact of jumping. Jumping jacks are suitable for most fitness levels, although people with joint issues might prefer low-impact versions like step jacks.
Jumping jacks can be used in
cardio
routines or as active recovery between strength exercises. Start with short intervals of 30-60 seconds, gradually increasing speed and duration as your fitness improves. Make jumping jacks more intense by increasing the speed, reducing rest periods, or by choosing a more complex variation from the list below.
Take a look at our technique tips and see a demo video for jumping jacks.
Check out some other jumping jacks exercises:
Step Jacks
,
Crossover Jacks,
Press Jacks,
Squat Jacks
,
Jumping Jack Burpees
Commonly Asked Questions About Jumping Jacks
What Are The Benefits Of Jumping Jacks?
Jumping jacks are a good cardio exercise that require minimal space and no equipment. They raise the heart rate, burn calories, work upper body and lower body muscles, and help build bone density.
Which Muscles Do Jumping Jacks Work?
Jumping jacks work the lower body, upper body, and core. The calves, quadriceps, and hip flexors work during the jumping motion, while the shoulders and upper back work during the arm raises. The core muscles maintain stability, and small stabilising muscles in the ankles and feet help maintain balance.
What Are Alternatives To Jumping Jacks?
Low-impact alternatives to jumping jacks include step jacks or side-stepping with overhead reaches. For alternatives that give similar cardio benefits, try high knees, mountain climbers, or skipping jump rope.
What Are Some Variations Of Jumping Jacks?
Popular variations of jumping jacks include crossover jacks, squat jacks, and press jacks (which require a set of dumbbells). Low-impact variations of jumping jacks include step jacks, and higher impact variations include jumping jacks with burpees.
Jumping Jack Tips
Move your arms and legs at the same time, rather than independently.
Get into a rhythm that you can maintain for reps.
Land each jump with slightly soft knees.
How To Do Jumping Jacks
Stand with your feet together and arms by your side.
Jump your legs out so that you land with your feet wider than shoulder width apart.
At the same time, raise both hands above your head.
Jump your legs back together and bring your arms back by your sides.
Repeat for desired reps.
Back To Top
Back to all jumping jack exercises
Back to all exercises
If you’re not sure if any of the above exercises are suitable for you, please consult your doctor before you start it. Need guidance on how to perform the exercise? Ask a personal trainer at your gym.