Title: Press Jacks
URL: https://www.puregym.com/exercises/cardio/jumping-jack/press-jacks/

Press Jacks
What are Press Jacks?
Jump straight to instructions
Press jacks
are a full body weighted variation of the traditional
jumping jack
that combines the cardio element of jumping with the strength work of an
overhead dumbbell press
. To perform press jacks, hold a dumbbell in each hand at shoulder height, and press the weights overhead as you jump your feet out wide. Lower the dumbbells back to shoulder height as you jump your feet back together.
The press jack with an overhead press creates a
full body
exercise that raises the heart rate, burns calories, and strengthens the
shoulders
. Press jacks also work the
core
,
legs
, and
glutes
. Our version of press jacks in the video below uses two dumbbells, but you could also use kettlebells.
Press jacks are best suited to people with good shoulder mobility. If you are new to this exercise, start with lighter weights until you master the timing of the combination.
Press jacks can be used as a
cardio
exercise, a high intensity upper body strength movement, or as part of a conditioning finisher at the end of your workout. Start with short intervals of 30-45 seconds, using a weight that allows you to maintain good form. To make press jacks more intense, use heavier dumbbells or increase your speed.
Take a look at our video and technique tips below on to do press jacks.
Check out some other jumping jacks exercises:
Step Jacks
,
Crossover Jacks,
Squat Jacks
,
Jumping Jack Burpees
,
Jumping Jacks
Commonly Asked Questions About Press Jacks
What Are The Benefits Of Press Jacks?
Press jacks are a variation of jumping jacks that combine cardio conditioning and upper body strength training. They help develop shoulder strength and stability, cardio fitness, and explosive power. Press jacks raise the heart rate and burn calories whilst building muscular endurance in the upper and lower body.
Which Muscles Do Press Jacks Work?
Press jacks work muscles in the lower body and upper body. The overhead pressing movement works the deltoids, trapezius, and triceps as well as the serratus anterior and upper back muscles. The jumping jack element engages the quads, calves, and glutes. Your abs and core muscles will also work to keep your body stable during the movement.
How Often Should I Include Press Jacks In My Workout Routine?
Press jacks are an intense exercise that challenge the upper body muscles. If you are new to jumping jacks or overhead press movements, you could do press jacks 1-2 times a week to build up fitness and strength. If you are more advanced, you could do press jacks 2-3 times a week. Do 3-4 sets of 30-45 seconds with rest in between sets. Press jacks are best incorporated into upper body or full body workouts.
What Are Alternatives To Press Jacks?
Alternatives to press jacks include dumbbell thrusters, jump squats with overhead press, or standard jumping jacks superset with overhead press or press ups. For a lower impact alternative, try step jacks with shoulder press or alternating reverse lunges with overhead press.
Press Jacks Tips
Start with light dumbbells as you learn the timing and technique.
Press the dumbbells overhead smoothly and lower the dumbbells back to shoulder height with control.
Keep your core engaged and knees soft throughout this exercise.
How To Do Press Jacks
Stand with feet together, holding a dumbbell in each hand.
Bring the dumbbells to shoulder height, palms facing inwards.
Jump your feet out so they land wider than shoulder width apart, and press the dumbbells overhead at the same time.
Jump your feet back together and bring the dumbbells back to shoulder height.
Repeat this movement quickly and smoothly for your desired reps or interval time.
Back To Top
Back to all jumping jack exercises
Back to all exercises
If you’re not sure if any of the above exercises are suitable for you, please consult your doctor before you start it. Need guidance on how to perform the exercise? Ask a personal trainer at your gym.