Title: Step Jacks
URL: https://www.puregym.com/exercises/cardio/jumping-jack/step-jacks/

Step Jacks
What are Step Jacks?
Jump straight to instructions
Step jacks
are a low-impact variation of the
jumping jack
. With step jacks, you step one foot out to the side whilst raising both arms overhead, then return arms and feet to the starting position before stepping the other leg out to the side. This modified movement provides a gentler alternative to jumping exercises, making it suitable for those who need to protect their joints or are building up their fitness levels.
Step jacks offer many of the
cardiovascular
benefits of jumping jacks without so much impact on the joints. The controlled stepping motion helps develop balance, and stability whilst elevating the heart rate. This low-impact variation is great for beginners learning the form, or those with an injury.
When doing step jacks, maintain good posture with your core engaged, stepping wide enough to challenge your balance. The arm movement should be fluid, reaching overhead without arching your lower back. This exercise is a good choice for beginners, those returning to exercise after injury, or anyone seeking a lower-impact
cardio
option.
Step jacks are versatile and can be incorporated into various parts of a workout routine. They're good for warming up muscles and gradually increasing heart rate or as an active recovery exercise between more intense movements. Start with shorter intervals and gradually increase duration as your endurance improves. You could increase the intensity stepping faster.
Take a look at our demo video and advice on step jacks below.
Check out some other jumping jacks exercises:
Crossover Jacks
,
Press Jacks
,
Squat Jacks
,
Jumping Jack Burpees
,
Jumping Jacks
Commonly Asked Questions About Step Jacks
What Are The Benefits Of Step Jacks?
Step jacks work the heart and lungs to build fitness without too much impact on the joints. They improve balance and spatial awareness, help develop muscular endurance in the legs, arms, and shoulders, and help you add more movement into your fitness routine.
Which Muscles Do Step Jacks Work?
Step jacks work several muscle groups. The stepping motion works the legs, including the quads, hip adductors and abductors and calves. The abs and core work to stabilise the sideways movement. The overhead arm motion works muscles of the shoulders and back, including the delts, traps, and lats. The exercise also works smaller stabilising muscles in the ankles and feet for balance.
How Often Should I Include Step Jacks In My Workout Routine?
Step jacks are a low intensity exercise that you could do every day if you wanted to. To get the benefits of step jacks, do them 3-5 times per week, either as part of your warm-up or in longer cardio sessions. You could also do them daily as part of a morning mobility routine.
What Are Alternatives To Step Jacks?
Good alternatives to step jacks include marching on the spot with arm raises or alternating side steps with front arm raises. You might also do traditional jumping jacks but at a slower pace. Standing torso twists with arm movements provide similar upper body engagement to step jacks, and static lunges with arm raises work similar muscle groups.
Step Jacks Tips
Get into a steady rhythm that you can maintain, moving your upper and lower body together fluidly.
Keep your core engaged and move with intention.
Step wide enough to challenge yourself.
How To Do Step Jacks
Stand with your feet together, and step one foot out to the side.
Raise both hands overhead as you step the foot out.
Bring the arms back down to your side as you step the feet back together.
Repeat with the other leg.
Continue this alternate leg movement.
Back To Top
Back to all jumping jack exercises
Back to all exercises
If you’re not sure if any of the above exercises are suitable for you, please consult your doctor before you start it. Need guidance on how to perform the exercise? Ask a personal trainer at your gym.